QUT | MOPP | A/1.1 QUT Governance Framework
            QUT&nbsp;Home
          Contact&nbsp;us
          Search
      MOPP Home
      Protocol for MOPP Policy
      Recent Updates
      A/1.1 QUT Governance Framework
Chapters
A - Governance/Organisation
B - Human Resources
C - Learning/Teaching
D - Research/Development
E - Student Administration
F - Information Management
G - Financial Management
H - Physical Facilities
I - International/Community
MOPP Appendices
MOPP Protocol
MOPP Updates
[Print-friendly version]
Contact OfficerDirector, Governance Services
Approval Date29/09/2006
Approval AuthorityCouncil 
Date of Next Review01/10/2009 
1.1.1 Background 
1.1.2 QUT Governance Framework 
1.1.3 Queensland University of Technology Act 1998 
1.1.4 Role of QUT Council 
1.1.5 External Obligations 
1.1.6 Internal programs, policies and processes 
Related Documents 
Modification History 
1.1.1 Background 
QUT recognises its social responsibility, as an institute of higher education
  and a public entity, to make a positive contribution to the community through
  its activities. Council, as the governing body of the University, has responsibility
  to ensure good governance consistent with the National Governance Protocols
  for Higher Education Providers issued by the Australian Government and best
practice governance principles for the public sector.
Australian Standard 8000-2003 Corporate Governance provides the following
  definition:
Corporate governance generally refers to the processes
    by which organisations are directed, controlled and held to account. It encompasses
    authority, accountability, stewardship, leadership, direction and control
  exercised in the organisation
The governance framework clarifies how the structures, policies and practices
  of the University are integrated, and the respective roles of Council and management.
  It provides the foundation for the effective discharge of responsibilities
  and demonstrates QUT's commitment to good governance.
Top 
1.1.2 QUT Governance Framework 
A number of key elements or principles are commonly regarded as consistent
with good corporate governance including the following:
Strategy, planning and monitoring of the vision, goals and organisational
    values
Robust risk management and compliance processes
Structure, composition and membership of Council
Council performance and effectiveness
Effective and appropriate committee structures
Reporting and monitoring (transparency and accountability)
Corporate values (social responsibility and ethics)
The governance framework at QUT can be described diagrammatically as set out
  below.
 Click 
  here
  to
  view the QUT Governance Framework diagram.
Top 
1.1.3 Queensland University of Technology Act 1998 
QUT is a statutory authority in the State of Queensland , established by
  an Act of the Queensland Parliament. The 
Queensland University
  of Technology Act 1998
(the 
QUT
  Act
) establishes QUT as a body corporate, which has a seal and may sue
  and be sued in its corporate name. This Act also describes QUT's functions
  and powers, its governance by QUT Council and its rights and obligations in
relation to property, gifts and finances.
The QUT Act provides that Council may make University statutes on specified
  topics such as the admission and enrolment of students, the entitlement to
  degrees, and student discipline. A University statute is subordinate legislation
  and so has binding force. Once made, statutes must be published in the Government
  Gazette and then tabled in Parliament. QUT statutes are published in 
Appendix
  1(b)
The Act also authorises Council to make rules under a University statute.
  Rules made under a statute take effect once they are made and promulgated by
  Council. University rules are published in 
Appendix
  1(c)
Top 
1.1.4 Role of QUT Council 
QUT Council
is
  the governing body of the University, ultimately responsible for ensuring its
  proper and effective management and operation. The structure, composition and
  membership of Council accords with government protocols, and the University's
  committee system and procedures comply with better practice principles. Council
  has approved nomination, induction and professional development processes for
  Council members, separation of Chancellor and Vice-Chancellor roles, procedures
  for the conduct of Council and committee meetings, guidelines to assist members
  to exercise their duties in a manner consistent with the University's Code
  of Conduct, and processes for review of overall and individual member performance
  and effectiveness. A Council Charter provides members with information on Council
  member roles and responsibilities, ethical conduct incorporating the QUT Council Procedure 1 - Committees and operational procedures.
Council prepares the foundations for management and oversight of the University
  through input into the development and approval of the strategic direction
  and policies of the University. It approves policies and procedures which underpin
  the University's ethical behaviour and compliance with its obligations. It
  reviews and monitors the performance both of the University and controlled
  entities, and reports to government.
Top 
1.1.5 External Obligations 
QUT is subject to a variety of legislation enacted by the Queensland and
  Commonwealth Parliaments, and is committed to complying with all relevant legislation
  and obligations through its compliance policy (see MOPP 
A/1.3).
  QUT has obligations under more than 100 Acts of Parliament, government accountability
  frameworks, regulations, codes of practice, and standards which are captured
  in the Register of Compliance Obligations. The external environment is complex,
  encompassing obligations of major significance to the Council and management
  in exercising due diligence over the operations of the University. Many legislative
  requirements such as equity, copyright, and health and safety, have become
  the subject of separate policy statements because of their impact on QUT's
activities.
QUT is an exempt public authority under the Corporations Act 2001. However
  its controlled entities may meet the definition of proprietary companies bound
  by the Act.
The Commonwealth funds QUT under the 
Higher Education Support
Act 2003. As an
institution in the Unified National System, QUT is funded primarily on the basis
of information it provides to the Commonwealth. For further information see the FRP website (Institution Assessment Framework).
Top 
1.1.6 Internal programs, policies and processes 
The internal structures within which governance operates are Council and
  its committees, and the Vice-Chancellor and his/her advisory committees. Council
  also adopts policies and procedures to guide staff and students in carrying
  out their responsibilities and activities. Staff and students are obliged to
work within these policies and procedures.
These policies are published in the online Manual of Policies and Procedures
  (MOPP) which articulates
  most internal policies and the delegations, authorities and reporting responsibilities
  of staff . Clear operational instructions and guidance derived from the policies
  and procedures are normally found on the websites of the divisions and faculties.
  Council has delegated some authority for policy approval to certain University
  committees or officers (see MOPP 
Appendix
  3).
a) Corporate values (social responsibility and ethics)
QUT is committed to the highest quality in teaching, learning, research and
  a wide range of professional and community activities. QUT values:
a service orientation which is client-focussed, reliable and responsive
    to the needs of both the University and relevant external communities
scholarship, learning and achievement in all student and staff endeavours
engagement with and responsiveness to its diverse internal and external
    communities
social justice and equal opportunity in education and employment
a safe, supportive and healthy working environment which supports work/life
    balance
honesty, integrity and ethical behaviour and practices
a spirit of experimentation, innovation, entrepreneurialism and client
    service.
Underpinning QUT's organisational values (MOPP 
A/2.1.2)
  is a Code of Conduct (MOPP 
B/8.1)
  designed to assist each member of the University, including members of Council,
  in discharging the obligation to act ethically and to observe the highest standards
  of behaviour. The 
Public Sector Ethics Act 1994 (Qld)
, on which the Code of
  Conduct is based, declares five 'ethics principles' as the basis for good public
administration. These are
respect for the law and system of government
respect for persons
integrity
diligence
economy and efficiency.
Council is committed to equal opportunity and to freedom from all forms of
  discrimination against staff and students. The QUT Reconciliation Statement
  (MOPP 
A/8.3
  recognises the particular responsibility of educational institutions to redress
  disadvantage and to overcome prejudice and commits QUT to sustainable reconciliation
  between Indigenous (Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples) and non-Indigenous
  Australian people.
QUT is committed to undertaking its commercial operations in an ethically
  and socially accountable manner to enhance its reputation as a good corporate
  citizen (MOPP D/1.1.1). This commitment is guided by the University's 
Business
  Case Framework
and commercialisation policies.
b) Strategic planning
Strategic planning is undertaken to direct the attainment of the University's
  vision and goals as outlined in the institutional plan, the 
QUT
  Blueprint
. The Planning Framework sets out a process of rolling five-year
  plans, reviewed and reported upon annually. It incorporates development of
  cascading layers of plans (institutional, top level functions, division and
  faculty plans and some functional activities, and individual staff performance
  plans), annual budgets, reporting on outcomes, devolution of responsibility
  and continuous improvement. Council approves the University's plans and budget,
  and monitors performance against them with assistance from its Planning and
  Resources Committee and Audit and Risk Management Committee, and senior executives
  responsible for the plans.
The QUT Quality Framework (MOPP 
A/2.4
  articulates key components of QUT business and how quality assurance and continuous
  improvement mechanisms facilitate the achievement of strategic goals and priorities
  articulated in institutional and top level plans.
A comprehensive evaluation of the efficiency and effectiveness of the strategic
  planning processes of operational units and the appropriateness of the results
  achieved is conducted regularly through the University's corporate review system
  (MOPP 
A/2.3).
c) Compliance and control
The QUT Register of Compliance Obligations (see Compliance Policy - MOPP 
A/1.3)
  contains all known external obligations under laws, regulations, codes or organisational
  standards including the QUT Act, its statutes and rules. The compliance register
  indicates the operational area responsible for ensuring obligations are met,
  as well as potential penalties for non-compliance and a risk rating to assist
  in understanding the level of exposure in the event of non-compliance. Compliance
  with internal policy and procedure is also a key element of the framework consistent
  with the QUT Code of Conduct.
Council is also committed to establishing a cost-effective internal control
  structure (MOPP 
A/2.6).
  Although the Vice-Chancellor is ultimately responsible for the establishment
  of a cost-effective internal control structure for the University in line with
  the requirements of the Financial  and Performance Management Standard 2009, developing and
  maintaining cost-effective internal controls is a management responsibility
  and an integral component of the overall process of managing operations of
  the University.
d) Risk management
QUT Council has the overall responsibility for risk management at QUT, which
  it exercises through its Audit and Risk Management Committee. The University's
  risk management policy (MOPP 
A/2.5)
  and the Risk Management Framework make each faculty and division responsible
  for managing their business risks. The alignment of risk management with the
  strategic planning process facilitates closer interaction between the revision
  of plans and the re-assessment of risks.
Audit and Risk Management Committee of Council (MOPP 
A/3.3)
  evaluates the adequacy and effectiveness of the management of significant business
  risks and advises Council on the University's level of exposure to them.
e) Delegation of decision-making
QUT Council endorses a framework for the delegation of decision-making based
  on principles of empowerment of staff and committees in an environment of responsible
  corporate governance (MOPP 
Appendix
  3). Devolution to appropriate levels of responsibility and competence
  ensures that QUT is administratively responsive and makes decisions in a timely
  way. The framework of delegations specifies powers which cannot or should not
  be delegated, having regard to the scope or purpose of decision-making, or
  other matters such as legislative requirements or prohibitions.
Sound corporate governance is achieved by ensuring that there are adequate
  internal control structures in place to support delegated decision-making,
  including appropriate policy settings, and monitoring, reporting and risk management
  systems.
f) Effective and appropriate committee structures
Council is assisted and advised in its role by its sub-committees and the
  Vice-Chancellor's management committees (MOPP 
Appendix
  8). All committees have constitutions published in the MOPP setting out
  their role, terms of reference, delegated powers, membership and reporting
  arrangements.
Council Procedure
    1 - Committees
outlines the roles of office bearers and conditions of
    membership, procedures for ordinary and special meetings and for decisions
    between meetings, record keeping responsibilities, conflicts of interest
    and indemnity, reimbursement of member expenses and induction and review.
g) Reporting and monitoring (transparency and accountability)
Good corporate governance requires appropriate mechanisms to monitor and report
  on performance. Council is assisted by its committees and management in monitoring
  performance against approved plans and key performance indicators as set out
  in the Planning Framework. The Vice-Chancellor supports the flow of information
  in presenting to each meeting of Council a report on the performance of the
  University and also identifies impending issues and risks facing the University.
The monitoring and control framework of the University is subject to continuous
  independent internal audit through Assurance and Risk Management Services which
  reports to Council through its Audit and Risk Management Committee.
To safeguard integrity and accountability of the monitoring function of committees,
  Council has established a 
Register
  of Disclosed Interests 
which members of Council and University committees
  are required to keep up-to-date, in addition to declaring conflicts of interest
  at meetings.
Reporting requirements delegated by Council to officers of the University
  and committees are articulated in a Schedule of Authorities and Delegations
  (MOPP 
Appendix
  3) to ensure that there is clarity of understanding of responsibilities.
  Reporting and control culminates with an external financial audit and presentation
  of the University's Annual Report, incorporating the audited financial statements
  and a report on governance matters, to State Parliament.
Top 
Related Documents 
National Governance Protocols for Higher Education Providers
Principles
  of Good Corporate Governance and Best Practice Recommendations, ASX
Corporate Governance Council, March 2003
MOPP Appendix 1(c) Student Rules
MOPP Appendix 1(b) QUT Legislative provisions - Statutes
Top 
Modification History 
Date
Sections
Source
Details
29.09.06
All
Council
Revised QUT Governance Framework
27.10.04
All
Council
Approved new QUT Governance Framework
Top 
    Chapter A | Chapter B | Chapter C | Chapter D | Chapter E | Chapter F | Chapter G | Chapter H | Chapter I | Appendices | Protocol for MOPP Policy | Recent Updates
    QUT Home | MOPP Home
    CRICOS No. 00213J
    Privacy | Copyright | Accessibility
    Last modified 13-Jul-2010
    Contact us | Feedback | Disclaimer
