QUT | MOPP | A/2.3 Corporate reviews
            QUT&nbsp;Home
          Contact&nbsp;us
          Search
      MOPP Home
      Protocol for MOPP Policy
      Recent Updates
      A/2.3 Corporate reviews
Chapters
A - Governance/Organisation
B - Human Resources
C - Learning/Teaching
D - Research/Development
E - Student Administration
F - Information Management
G - Financial Management
H - Physical Facilities
I - International/Community
MOPP Appendices
MOPP Protocol
MOPP Updates
[Print-friendly version]
Contact OfficerDirector, Reporting and Analysis, Finance and Resource Planning 
Approval Date15/10/2008 
Approval AuthorityCouncil 
Date of Next Review01/09/2011 
2.3.1 Context 
2.3.2 Purpose 
2.3.3 Goals of review system 
2.3.4 Terms of reference 
2.3.5 Process 
Related Documents 
Modification History
2.3.1 Context 
Corporate reviews are a core part of the University's  planning and quality assurance frameworks.
The corporate reviews process provides valuable input into  strategic planning exercises with the implementation of review affirmations and  recommendations required to be integrated into organisational area plans.
Corporate reviews and their emphasis on self-review,  reflection, strategic positioning, continuous improvement and accountability  support the University's quality assurance and the Australian Universities  Quality Agency (AUQA) undertakings through establishment of a culture of  continuous improvement, leading to improved processes and activities of the  University. Information is shared  throughout the University during and after a review, by individuals, via the  review report and through other collaborative processes.
Reviews may focus on a faculty, division or institute within  the University. Alternatively, a  thematic review is one that focuses on a service / process, the delivery of  which spans organisational boundaries and is usually the responsibility of more  than one organisational area.
Top 
2.3.2 Purpose 
The overall purpose of a faculty/division/institute and  thematic review is to:
  cyclically evaluate the quality assurance  arrangements, achievements and performance relating to the activities of a faculty  / division / institute and thematic activities occurring within the University;
  ensure that the activities of a faculty / division /  institute are supporting the directions of the University as articulated by  strategic and top-level plans;
  respond to organisational audit requirements  through implementation of effective and professional institutional monitoring  of its own performance and use the information gained for institutional  planning and improvement;
  encourage and assist the growth of an organisational  culture that is committed to continuous improvement; and
  promote continuous improvement in the academic and  other programs of the University and help assure the quality of the University.
The purpose of reviews is developmental and, to  this end, the fundamental outcome of a review is the identification of agreed key  steps which the University will undertake in order to improve its achievements  and outcomes against stated objectives, enhance its quality and performance,  and strengthen its strategic positioning and direction.
Top 
2.3.3 Goals of review system 
The goals of the review system are to:
  implement rigorous internal and external scrutiny  of the processes for self-evaluation used by a faculty / division / institute  or those organisational areas involved in thematic reviews with particular  emphasis on recent performance, current activities and proposed strategic  directions;
  assess the direction, leadership, management,  innovation and business outcomes of an organisational area/s; and
  be an instrument for managed change and continuous  improvement in the University.
Top 
2.3.4 Terms of reference 
Each corporate review will be carried out according to the  terms of reference. For each review, Planning  and Resources Committee may add to or modify these terms of reference.
The terms of reference for a review of a faculty / division /  institute should be addressed in the context of the University's strategic  plans, goals, organisational values and key performance indicators, and be responsive  to national and international contexts.
The review panel&rsquo;s task is to provide an objective view of  the faculty / division / institute&rsquo;s performance and future plans developed  through the self-review process (see section 2.3.5(c) below), which includes  commending good practice and affirming or recommending changes.
For faculty / divisional reviews:
The terms of reference include
    to evaluate the governance, leadership,  management practices, and supporting systems reflecting (but not limited  to): recent organisational performance  (including collection and interpretation of key performance indicators; environmental  scanning and risk management, eg SWOT analysis; benchmarking and comparative data;  and evidence of outcomes against plans and stated objectives); consistency with the aims, values and  objectives of the top-level plans; progress since the previous corporate review  implementation plan; interdependencies with other reviews (internal, external  and thematic); contribution to QUT&rsquo;s corporate agenda and evidence of  cooperation and collaboration across the University; and future directions and  strategic positioning of the faculty/division for the next five years (see  sections 2.3.5(c) and 2.3.5(d) below);
    to review the quality, scope, focus and  direction of learning and teaching activities including (but not limited  to): supportive learning environments;  learning outcomes; teaching performance; course performance and curriculum  design, incorporating internationalisation of the curriculum; learning and  teaching support services; examining student and graduate satisfaction and the  perceptions of key external stakeholders; congruent with future developments in  appropriate professions or disciplines at the national level;
    to review the quality, scope, focus and  direction of research and innovation including (but not limited to): research activity; research quality and  impact; research outcomes including commercial achievements; interdisciplinary and  international focus; research-led benefits to the community and society at  large; quality of research management and training; and research support  services; congruent with future research developments in relevant disciplines;
    to review an organisational area&rsquo;s people and  cultural environment including (but not limited to): leadership; human resource management  practices; service orientation and responsiveness to the needs of the  University and relevant external communities; and equity and diversity; and
    to review the effective and efficient use of  infrastructure (both physical and virtual facilities) and financial resources  in light of its current functions and anticipated future developments.    
  For institute reviews:
  The institute should address the review criteria as  specified in D/4.1  Institutes (Tier 1).
  For thematic reviews:
  Terms of reference for thematic reviews will be extracted  from those detailed for faculty / division / institute reviews and modified to  suit the particular characteristics of the service / process which is the  subject of the review. Each set of  thematic terms of reference will be approved through Planning and Resources  Committee, or executively by the Vice-Chancellor, on behalf of Council.
Top 
2.3.5 Process 
a) The review schedule
Planning and Resources Committee discharges Council's  responsibility for the overall implementation of the internal review system and  determines a schedule of reviews. Reviews  are normally, in the case of faculty, division and institute reviews,  undertaken on a five-year cycle. Thematic  reviews are undertaken on an as needs basis. The Vice-Chancellor may request that Planning  and Resources Committee set up a review out of sequence from the schedule.
b) The review panel
Membership of each panel is determined according to the  following guidelines:
  One member with recent experience in a senior  academic or administrative position, nominated by Council, as Chair;
  A deputy vice-chancellor, head of division or executive  dean of faculty nominated by the Vice-Chancellor;
  One or two distinguished professionals with  relevant expertise;
  In the       case of a division - one or two distinguished external members drawn from       the professional community; 
     In the       case of a faculty or institute - two distinguished external members, at       least one of whom is drawn from the academic community.
In exceptional circumstances an additional external member  may be appointed.
The Division of Finance and Resource Planning will nominate  a Secretary to the review panel.
c) Self-review
External scrutiny by the review panel is informed by the  critical self-review by the organisational area/s. Self-review enables the organisational area/s  to supply information to the review panel and also has the potential to lead to  improvements prior to review panel intervention.
Self-review should be engaged as an organisational learning  and development exercise which facilitates a shared participation and ownership  by staff of quality assurance. Staff  should participate in self-review from the outset in recognition of their  knowledge and expertise and contributions to the improved performance and  quality of the organisational area/s.
Self-review should result in a frank and candid account of  an organisational area&rsquo;s performance against the terms of reference for the  review.
Self-review should also establish a firm integration of  quality assurance and continuous improvement into the organisational area&rsquo;s  strategic and day-to-day management, and service delivery.
d) The review portfolio and associated submissions
(i) The portfolio
The faculty / division / institute or area/s responsible for  thematic reviews are required to develop a review portfolio summarising the  outcomes of its self-review against the terms of reference for reviews. It should specify strategies, objectives, activities,  measures and outcomes. The portfolio  will identify areas of strength including achievements and areas requiring  improvement. For the latter, it may  foreshadow action.
Further information can be obtained from the Guidelines for  Preparing the Review Portfolio.
(ii) Supporting documentation
Supporting documentation including most recent plans and  annual reports, and documents which illustrate a broad and representative range  of reports and publications may be referenced in the review portfolio and made  available to the review panel.
The Department of Reporting and Analysis, Division of Finance and  Resource Planning, develops a statistical information booklet to assist in the  successful development of the portfolio and to support the review panel in  their deliberations and formulation of commendations, affirmations and recommendations.  The data utilised as a foundation for  this document is drawn from quality assured and authenticated corporate  information technology systems.
The statistical information booklet provides a:
  high level analysis and interpretation of data  trends in specified areas; and
  comprehensive and comparative data relating to  specified areas.
(iii) Submissions
Written submissions, responding to all or a sub-set of the terms  of reference will be called from:
  the University community - including  organisational areas, staff and the Student Guild; and
  key external stakeholders - including for  example Alumni, professional groups, industry partners and government agencies  (where relevant).
The organisational area under review is invited to respond  to written submissions received.
Confidential and anonymous submissions will not be accepted.  However, individual and/or groups of staff will be provided with an opportunity  to request an interview with the review panel in order to respond to any issue  in relation to all or a sub-set of the terms of reference.
e) The review
Prior to the review panel site visit, the review panel  convenes to clarify its understanding of the task, request any additional  information, determine the interview schedule and identify any themes or issues  emerging from the review portfolio and submissions.
The review panel visits the area under review for a period  not exceeding five consecutive working days. The site visit is of sufficient time to allow  the panel to conduct the review thoroughly, formulate its commendations,  affirmations and recommendations, and prepare a draft of its report.
f) The review report
The review report follows a standard format which addresses  the terms of reference for the review.
Once panel members agree to do so, a draft of the report is  made available to the Vice-Chancellor, and in the case of the review of a  faculty / institute, to the Deputy Vice-Chancellor (Academic) and Deputy  Vice-Chancellor (Research and Commercialisation) for information, and to the  faculty / division / institute or nominated senior officer for limited  circulation to allow it to identify any errors of fact, and to seek  modifications to recommendations, conclusions and comments made on the basis of  factual error. Modifications to the  draft can be made by the secretary to the review panel in consultation with the  panel chair.
g) Carriage of the report
The  final report is provided to the Vice-Chancellor (in the case of a division), the  Deputy Vice-Chancellor (Academic) (in the case of a faculty) and/or the Deputy  Vice-Chancellor (Research and Commercialisation) (in the case of an institute),  and to the relevant faculty / division / institute, normally within six weeks  of the review panel completing its visit to the University. 
h) Implementation of review affirmations and recommendations
On receipt of the review report, the Vice-Chancellor (in the  case of a division or a thematic review), the Deputy Vice-Chancellor (Academic)  (in the case of a faculty review), or the Deputy Vice-Chancellor (Academic) and  the Deputy Vice-Chancellor (Research and Commercialisation) (in the case of an institute  review), requests that the relevant organisational area or nominated  respondents provide, normally within six weeks of the report's release:
  written comments on, and proposals in response  to, the review panel's report and recommendations; and
  an implementation plan which outlines actions  which the faculty / division / institute or the broader organisation will take  in response to the review report and a draft timetable for their implementation.
University Academic Board then considers the report, written  comments on, and proposals from the faculty / division / institute or nominated  respondents, and the draft implementation plan in relation to academic matters  including factors affecting teaching and research, and forwards the report with  recommendations and comments to Planning and Resources Committee.
At a subsequent meeting, Planning and Resources Committee  assesses the report and draft implementation plan. Planning and Resources Committee then submits  to Council a summary of the main conclusions of the review, together with the  final implementation plan.
The Corporate Reviews Officer monitors the implementation of  post-review actions and provides annual reports on progress against review  affirmations and recommendations to Planning and Resources Committee. Planning and Resources Committee reports  annually to Council on the implementation of post-review actions.
The Vice-Chancellor, Deputy Vice-Chancellor (Academic),  and/or Deputy Vice-Chancellor (Research and Commercialisation), whichever is  the appropriate officer, is responsible for ensuring satisfactory progression  of implementation of post-review actions.
Top 
Related Documents 
MOPP A/2.2 University planning framework
 MOPP A/2.4 University quality framework
Corporate  Reviews website 
Top 
Modification History 
Date
Sections
Source
Details
   05.01.10
   A/2.3.5
  Acting Vice-Chancellor
  Minor amendment to clarify external  membership categories on review panels
   15.10.08
   All
  Council
  Revised policy (endorsed by Planning and  Resources Committee 07.10.08 and Vice-Chancellor&rsquo;s Advisory Committee 16.07.08)
13.11.03
All
Planning and Resources Committee
Revised policy; re-numbered and re-located to MOPP A/2.3 (previously MOPP 
      A/7.8)
11.12.02
All
Council
Revised policy
4.10.00
A/2.3.5
Planning and Resources Committee
Approved replacement of the position of Pro-Vice-Chancellor (Planning 
      and Resources) with position of a Pro-Vice-Chancellor, Registrar, Dean of 
      Faculty or Head of Division nominated by the Vice-Chancellor, effective 
      until the end of 2001; Revised membership of review panels to include new 
      Executive Director, Finance and Resource Planning
11.8.98
All
Planning and Resources Committee
Revised guidelines for the conduct of faculty/division reviews; revised 
      schedule of reviews
Top 
    Chapter A | Chapter B | Chapter C | Chapter D | Chapter E | Chapter F | Chapter G | Chapter H | Chapter I | Appendices | Protocol for MOPP Policy | Recent Updates
    QUT Home | MOPP Home
    CRICOS No. 00213J
    Privacy | Copyright | Accessibility
    Last modified 12-May-2010
    Contact us | Feedback | Disclaimer
