QUT | MOPP | A/3.8 Faculty advisory committees
            QUT&nbsp;Home
          Contact&nbsp;us
          Search
      MOPP Home
      Protocol for MOPP Policy
      Recent Updates
      A/3.8 Faculty advisory committees
Chapters
A - Governance/Organisation
B - Human Resources
C - Learning/Teaching
D - Research/Development
E - Student Administration
F - Information Management
G - Financial Management
H - Physical Facilities
I - International/Community
MOPP Appendices
MOPP Protocol
MOPP Updates
[Print-friendly version]
Contact OfficerDirector, Governance Services 
Approval Date01/07/2009 
Approval AuthorityCouncil 
Date of Next Review01/07/2011 
Related Documents
  Modification History 
Advisory committees are established in accordance  with Council Procedure 1 - Committees and are an important  mechanism for connecting the University with industry and the professional  communities. They bring external members' experience and perspectives to bear  as the University considers its strategic positioning and future directions in  teaching and research. It is acknowledged that disciplinary and structural  diversity is an essential element of the University. Some faculties are  characterised by a narrow range of disciplines, and some by interdisciplinary  or even transdisciplinary approaches. There also are differing requirements for  professional accreditation, and therefore faculties are encouraged to create  advisory committees that best suit their particular needs. Each faculty  academic board makes recommendation to University Academic Board (A/3.6)  concerning the number and organisation of its advisory committees.
  Terms of reference
Faculty advisory committees are responsible to  faculty academic boards (A/3.7).
The principal aims of a faculty advisory committee  include:
  provision of advice and input on strategic issues  raised in the context of faculty five year plans;
  provision of a mechanism to ensure that the faculty  is attuned to professional and community trends by acting as a strategic  scanning mechanism and assisting the faculty in identifying needs and  opportunities in teaching and research, and making timely responses to changes  in industry, the professions or the community;
  provision of invaluable networking opportunities to  benefit students and staff of the University through the establishment and  maintenance of strong professional and industry connections; 
  provision of an advocacy group to assist the  faculty in its engagement activities; and
  participation in validation of learning and  research outcomes for graduating students.
  Membership
Membership of a faculty advisory committee is  subject to approval of the relevant faculty academic board, and should be such  as to facilitate achievement of the principal aims of the committee as outlined  above.
The majority of committee members must be drawn  from the external community. External membership should be reflective of the  broad range of knowledge, skills and/or attributes represented by the faculty  academic profile. Individual external members are not appointed as  representatives of a specific constituency, but for their contributions to an  appropriate mix of perspectives across the committee.
External members of QUT Council may be external  members of faculty advisory committees.
The Chair must be one of the external members and  is appointed on the recommendation of the executive dean of faculty. 
Membership of a faculty advisory committee will  normally include:
  the executive dean of faculty concerned 
  an internal academic from the faculty concerned 
  at least one head of school / portfolio director  nominated by the relevant faculty academic board 
  external members who broadly reflect the interests  of employers, graduates, research collaborators, the professional or other  relevant associations, practitioners in the particular area and, where  appropriate, the broader community 
  a member of Alumni, as a recent graduate of the  faculty concerned. 
Assistant Deans / Directors of Teaching and  Learning, Assistant Deans, Research (or their equivalent), and relevant course  coordinators, are coopted to the faculty advisory committee as required. Other  persons with expertise in areas relevant to the committee's work may be coopted  if required.
A nominee of the executive dean of faculty is  secretary.
  Tenure and frequency of meeting
Faculty advisory committees normally meet  twice a year.
Membership is renewable, and staggered terms are  suggested in order to ensure continuity. Membership is normally consistent with  section 6 of Council Procedure 1 - Committees.
  Reporting
 Faculty advisory committees report to their faculty  academic board as necessary.Top
Related Documents
MOPP A/3.6 University Academic Board
MOPP A/3.7 Faculty academic boards 
Top
Modification History
      Date
      Sections
      Source
      Details
    01.07.09
    All
    Council
    Revised  terms of reference and membership of faculty advisory committees;  disestablished school advisory committees
    24.10.08
    All
    Governance Services
    Renumbered and relocated to A/3.8 (formerly C/1.3.3) 
    14.12.05
    All
    Council
    Revised terms of reference of faculty academic boards to devolve    authority for approval of membership of faculty and school advisory    committees to faculty academic boards; revised terms of reference and    membership provisions for faculty / school advisory committees (endorsed by    University Academic Board 18.11.05)
    16.11.04
    All
    Secretariat
    Editorial (renumbered - formerly C/2.3, C/2.3.1, C/2.3.2, C/2.3.3)
    02.06.04
    All
    Council
    Revised terms of reference and membership provisions, in accordance    with recommendations of Council Panel of the 2003/2004 Committees Review
    06.08.02
    All
    Chair, University Academic Board
    Revised terms of reference and membership - faculty and school    advisory committees (effective immediately) (endorsed by University Academic    Board 31.07.02)
    10.03.00
    All
    University Academic Board
    Revised membership provisions (endorsed by Alumni Board 15.9.1999)
    08.05.98
    All
    University Academic Board
    Clarification of membership provisions
Top 
    Chapter A | Chapter B | Chapter C | Chapter D | Chapter E | Chapter F | Chapter G | Chapter H | Chapter I | Appendices | Protocol for MOPP Policy | Recent Updates
    QUT Home | MOPP Home
    CRICOS No. 00213J
    Privacy | Copyright | Accessibility
    Last modified 01-Jun-2010
    Contact us | Feedback | Disclaimer
