QUT | MOPP | A/4.1 Principal officers and organisational structure
            QUT&nbsp;Home
          Contact&nbsp;us
          Search
      MOPP Home
      Protocol for MOPP Policy
      Recent Updates
      A/4.1 Principal officers and organisational structure
Chapters
A - Governance/Organisation
B - Human Resources
C - Learning/Teaching
D - Research/Development
E - Student Administration
F - Information Management
G - Financial Management
H - Physical Facilities
I - International/Community
MOPP Appendices
MOPP Protocol
MOPP Updates
[Print-friendly version]
Contact OfficerRegistrar 
Approval Date21/10/2009 
Approval AuthorityCouncil 
Date of Next Review01/11/2012 
4.1.1 Management of the University 
4.1.2 Vice-Chancellor   
4.1.3 Principal  officers  
4.1.4 Other  senior officers  
4.1.5 QUT  organisational structure and definitions 
4.1.6 Academic  organisational structure 
4.1.7 Non-academic  organisational structure 
4.1.8 Responsibility  for establishment of organisational units 
4.1.9 Naming  of organisational units
Related Documents
Modification History 
4.1.1 Management of the  University 
Section 9 of the Queensland  University of Technology Act 1998 (QUT Act) specifies that QUT Council is  responsible for the appointment of the University&rsquo;s staff, and the management and control of its affairs, property and finances. QUT Council delegates most  operational aspects of this role to the Vice-Chancellor and other senior  officers. 
Further information on the appointment, responsibilities,  delegations and reporting requirements of Council members and senior University  officers is contained in the QUT Act, the Schedule of Authorities and Delegations, QUT Council Procedures and on the Human  Resources website.
Top 
4.1.2 Vice-Chancellor 
The Vice-Chancellor is the chief executive officer of the  University, responsible to QUT Council for: 
  promoting the interests and goals of the University and advancing its development and organisational values;
  providing leadership to the University; and
  the management and operation of the University, including its academic, administrative, financial and other functions.
Top 
4.1.3 Principal officers 
Deputy vice-chancellors and heads of division are  responsible to the Vice-Chancellor for the overall leadership, management and administration of their areas of responsibility. These positions are as follows.
Deputy Vice-Chancellor  (Academic)
  The Deputy Vice-Chancellor (Academic) is responsible to the  Vice-Chancellor for the management of the academic functions of the University, including overseeing the academic faculties. The Deputy Vice-Chancellor  (Academic) acts for the Vice-Chancellor in that officer&rsquo;s absence.
Deputy Vice-Chancellor  (International and Development)
  The Deputy Vice-Chancellor (International and Development)  is head of the Division of International and Development, and is responsible to the Vice-Chancellor for leading the University's international, development and  engagement activities.
Deputy Vice-Chancellor  (Research and Commercialisation)
  The Deputy Vice-Chancellor (Research and Commercialisation) is head of the Division of Research and Commercialisation, and is responsible to the Vice-Chancellor for leading the University's research and  commercialisation agendas.
Deputy Vice-Chancellor  (Learning and Teaching)
  The Deputy Vice-Chancellor (Learning and Teaching) is responsible  to the Vice-Chancellor for leading improvements and advancements in teaching and learning quality in the University.
Deputy Vice-Chancellor  (Technology, Information and Learning Support)
  The Deputy Vice-Chancellor (Technology, Information and  Learning Support) is head of the Division of Technology, Information and Learning Support, and is responsible to the Vice-Chancellor for leading and  coordinating the University's technology, information and learning support  functions.
Executive Director,  Finance and Resource Planning
  The Executive Director, Finance and Resource Planning is  head of the Division of Finance and Resource Planning, and is responsible to the Vice-Chancellor for the finances and planning functions of the University.
Registrar
  The Registrar is head of the Division of Administrative  Services, Secretary to Council and the chief administrative officer of the University, responsible to the Vice-Chancellor for the administration of the  University.
Top 
4.1.4 Other senior officers 
Senior officers are responsible for the overall leadership, management and administration of their areas of responsibility. These positions  are as follows.
Executive dean of  faculty
  An executive dean of faculty is responsible to the Deputy  Vice-Chancellor (Academic) for the leadership, management and integration of  the activities of schools and centres of the faculty and for promoting a sense  of unity, cooperation and common purpose within the faculty.
Assistant dean
  An assistant dean is responsible to the executive dean of faculty for strategic leadership of the relevant function within the faculty  (eg learning and teaching, research, international and engagement).
Head of school
  A head of school is responsible to the executive dean of faculty for academic and administrative leadership of the school. Within the Creative Industries Faculty, the positions of portfolio director and Assistant  Dean, Research equate to head of school.
Department /  independent section manager
  A department / independent section manager is responsible to the head of division for the operation and management of the department / independent section. 
Faculty research centre director
A faculty research centre director is responsible to the executive dean of faculty for the coordination of research and doctoral programs in areas relevant to the faculty research centre. 
Institute director
  An institute director is responsible to the Vice-Chancellor,  through the Deputy Vice-Chancellor (Research and Commercialisation), for the achievement of the institute's objectives, and for leadership and management of  the institute.
Top 
4.1.5 QUT organisational  structure and definitions 
QUT is organised into a number of academic and non-academic  organisational units. Refer to Appendix 5 for QUT&rsquo;s organisational structure. 
QUT has defined the following organisational units.
Faculty
A faculty is a formal grouping of academic programs, schools, centres, or any combination of these, drawn together for educational purposes and/or administrative efficiency and convenience.
School
A school is a formal grouping of academic and non-academic staff, physical facilities and equipment, which is aggregated in order to conduct courses identified with specific professions or disciplines. Schools are responsible  for teaching, consulting, research and community service, and for associated  professional activities.
Division
  A division is a formal grouping of a number of departments, sections and/or independent sections drawn together for the purpose of coordinating activities and for administrative efficiency and convenience. A division is characterised  by complexity of operation and responsibility for the provision of a wide range  of administrative and/or educational support services. 
Department
  A department is a formal grouping of a number of staff, physical facilities and equipment, which is responsible for a major functional area of administrative  or educational services. Departments are normally part of a division and may  contain sections. 
Section
  A section is a formal grouping of a relatively small number of staff, physical facilities and equipment, which is responsible for the performance of a  discrete set of activities. Sections are normally part of a department.  However, a number of sections within the University are classified as  'independent sections' and have similar responsibilities to a department, but  on a smaller scale.
Institutes and centres
QUT also has research institutes (D/4.1) and research centres (D/4.2 and D/4.3) which contribute to the University's research agenda  and capacity.
Top 
4.1.6 Academic  organisational structure 
The  organisation of QUT's academic areas is based on identifiable areas of mutual  interest which are grouped into faculty and school units. Research activities  are pursued through research centres and groups within faculties. Major  interdisciplinary research activities are pursued through institutes. Policy on  organisation of research centres and institutes is set out in D/1.2 and D/4 .
QUT is organised into the academic faculties of:
  Built Environment and Engineering 
  Business 
  Creative Industries 
  Education 
  Health 
  Law 
  Science and Technology. 
All faculties, except the Creative Industries Faculty,  comprise schools responsible for the conduct of courses in specific  disciplinary or professional areas. The Creative Industries Faculty operates  with three portfolios, housing eight disciplines.
Faculty and school status is determined on the basis of an  appropriate mix of such factors as:
  the educational, administrative and economic advantages which would flow to QUT from such an organisational arrangement; 
  size (staff, EFTS, EFTSL); 
  number, complexity and diversity of courses and facilities; 
  coherence and homogeneity of courses with respect to professional or disciplinary orientation; 
  number, range and diversity of professional affiliations; 
  level of research, consulting and fundraising activity; 
  identified  need for leadership at executive dean of faculty or head of school level respectively. 
Top 
4.1.7 Non-academic  organisational structure 
Non-academic  areas of the University are grouped into units designated as sections,  departments and divisions.
QUT is organised into  the non-academic areas of:
  Chancellery
  Division of Administrative Services
  Division of Finance and Resource Planning
  Division of International and Development
  Division of Research and Commercialisation
  Division of Technology, Information and Learning Support.
The status of sections, departments and divisions is  determined on the basis of the administrative efficiency, service provision and  economic advantages which flow to the University from such an organisational  arrangement as well as such factors as:
  size students, staff, public and facilities serviced; staff employed; records maintained; transactions performed);
  number, complexity and diversity of activities performed;
  number, size, diversity and complexity of facilities, equipment and systems used. 
Top 
4.1.8 Responsibility for  establishment of organisational structure 
QUT  Council, acting on advice from University Academic Board, is responsible for  the establishment, monitoring and closure of centres, institutes, schools and  faculties. Proposals to amend the structure of academic areas can be initiated  by individual organisational units or by a number of organisational units  jointly.
The  Vice-Chancellor is responsible for the creation and dissolution of sections,  departments and divisions.
Top 
4.1.9 Naming of  organisational units 
QUT  Council has determined that in naming organisational units, due regard be given  to persons who have been associated prominently with the University, including  major financial contributors. Council intends that names only be considered as  the occasion arises or otherwise warrants.
Top 
Related Documents 
MOPP D/4.5  Appointment of centre and institute directors
  MOPP Appendix  3 Schedule of Authorities and Delegations
MOPP Appendix  5 QUT Organisational Structure
Top 
Modification History 
Date
Sections
Source
Details
  11.02.11
  All
  Governance Services
  Revised terms of reference due to position title change from Deputy Vice-Chancellor (Teaching Quality) to Deputy Vice-Chancellor (Learning and Teaching)
   21.10.09
   All 
  Council
  Revised  and renamed policy (replaces former policies A/4.1, A/4.2, A/5.1 and B/1.2)
   24.10.08
   All 
  Governance Services
  Renumbered and relocated to A/5.1(formerly A/3.3)
   29.07.05
   A/5.1.10
   Vice-Chancellor
   Approved responsibilities for institute directors (endorsed by University Academic Board 01.07.05)
21.10.04
A/5.1.2, A/5.1.3, A/5.1.4
Vice-Chancellor
Revised responsibilities of senior officers in accordance with current management structure (added new sections A/5.1.2 Deputy Vice-Chancellors and Heads of Division, and A/5.1.4 Executive Director, Finance and Resource Planning; deleted former A/5.1.3 Pro-Vice-Chancellors; re-numbered remaining sections)
05.10.04
A/5.1.7, A/5.1.8
Secretariat
Editorial amendment consistent with Creative Industries structure and Appendix 3 - Schedule of Authorities and Delegations
24.06.03
A/5.1.9
Vice-Chancellor
Approved responsibilities for faculty research centre directors
14.04.03
A/5.1
Vice-Chancellor
Re-defined role of University Executive.
03.01.02
A/5.1.7, A/5.1.8
Vice-Chancellor
Approved responsibilities for senior officers within Creative Industries 
      Faculty
07.07.99
A/5.1
Council
Approved Council Procedure 4 (replaces former Statute 5 - The Vice-chancellor 
      and other University Officers)
17.06.98
A/5.1.2
Vice-chancellor
Revised responsibilities (endorsed by Vice-Chancellor's Advisory Committee 17.6.98)
17.06.98
A/5.1.3
Vice-chancellor
Revised responsibilities (endorsed by Vice-Chancellor's Advisory Committee  17.6.98)
Top
    Chapter A | Chapter B | Chapter C | Chapter D | Chapter E | Chapter F | Chapter G | Chapter H | Chapter I | Appendices | Protocol for MOPP Policy | Recent Updates
    QUT Home | MOPP Home
    CRICOS No. 00213J
    Privacy | Copyright | Accessibility
    Last modified 10-Feb-2011
    Contact us | Feedback | Disclaimer
