QUT | MOPP | A/6.1 Grievance resolution policy
            QUT&nbsp;Home
          Contact&nbsp;us
          Search
      MOPP Home
      Protocol for MOPP Policy
      Recent Updates
      A/6.1 Grievance resolution policy
Chapters
A - Governance/Organisation
B - Human Resources
C - Learning/Teaching
D - Research/Development
E - Student Administration
F - Information Management
G - Financial Management
H - Physical Facilities
I - International/Community
MOPP Appendices
MOPP Protocol
MOPP Updates
[Print-friendly version]
Contact OfficerManager, Policy Planning and Workplace Relations, HR 
Approval Date17/11/2005 
Approval AuthorityVice-Chancellor 
Date of Next Review01/07/2009 
6.1.1 Policy statement 
6.1.2 Policy principles 
6.1.3 Framework for procedures 
Related Documents 
Modification History 
6.1.1 Policy statement 
QUT is committed to ensuring a harmonious, fair and just working and learning environment by ensuring
  that staff and students have access to processes that allow for grievances, disputes, problems and
complaints to be resolved.
All managers and supervisors have an obligation and responsibility to proactively promote a workplace
  free of workplace bullying and intimidation whether this is between supervisors and staff, between
  staff members or between staff and students. All grievances will be dealt with in a supportive environment
  without victimisation or intimidation of anyone connected with the grievance either during or subsequent
  to a grievance resolution procedure.
QUT's approach to grievance resolution emphasises:
fairness and impartiality
conciliation
the principles of natural justice and procedural fairness
resolution of grievances as early as possible and as close as possible to the source
the role of supervisors in seeking to prevent and resolve grievances.
Three sets of procedures arise from this policy dealing specifically with grievances related to workplace,
  discrimination or student matters. All have a common three-step framework, and are informed by the
  same principles. Between them, they apply to all staff and students and cover disputes, grievances
  and problems affecting the working and learning environment such as:
grievances over working or learning arrangements, decisions or conditions affecting the complainant.
    For staff this may, for example, involve grievances over individual workload allocation. For students
    this may, for example, involve grievances over academic and administrative operations, or involving
    other students.
bullying*, psychological abuse, abuse of power or coercive management practices
interpersonal grievances
harassment and discrimination, for example on racial or sexual grounds
behaviour inconsistent with that required by the QUT Code
  of Conduct and QUT Student Code of Conduct.
* "Bullying" is defined as the repeated less favourable treatment of a person by another
  or others, which may be considered unreasonable and inappropriate. It includes behaviour that intimidates,
  offends, degrades or humiliates a person, possibly in front of colleagues or clients.
Bullying complaints by staff where discrimination related elements appear to be present will be dealt
  with under the grievance resolution procedures for discrimination-related conflicts. All other staff
  grievances will be dealt with under the workplace related grievance procedures.
Top 
6.1.2 Policy principles 
The University's grievance resolution policy and procedures is based on the following principles:
(a) Informal and early resolution of grievances is encouraged.
(b) Conciliation of grievances will be undertaken by relevant University officers to assist parties
  to reach agreement, where possible.
(c) It is the primary responsibility of supervisors to take all reasonable steps to prevent and resolve
  grievances in their work units. Supervisors need to recognise the early signs of disharmony in their
  teams and to take early, sensitive and positive steps to prevent and resolve grievances between their
  staff. Similarly, academic supervisors should seek to prevent grievances developing in the student
  body. Supervisors should not wait until someone makes a complaint before taking action. If a complaint
  is made, it is the supervisor's responsibility to seek to resolve the issue.
(d) The parties involved in the grievance must participate in the grievance resolution process in
  good faith.
(e) The University may take action against vexatious or frivolous complaints. Any person found to
  have made such a complaint may be subject to the University's disciplinary procedures as defined in
  the relevant enterprise bargaining agreement or University policy (Clause 44 
Enterprise  Bargaining Agreement (Academic Staff), Clause 49 
Enterprise Bargaining Agreement (Professional Staff)
, Disciplinary Action for Misconduct and Serious Misconduct - Senior Staff (
B/8.5),  or Management of student discipline (E/8.1).
A complaint which is made in good faith is not a vexatious complaint, even if the complaint is not
  eventually substantiated.
(f) The grievance resolution process will be conducted as expeditiously as possible and in accordance
  with the agreed timeframe specified within each procedure.
(g) The procedures will be applied fairly with integrity and flexibility.
(h) All persons are to be treated with respect and impartiality, and provided with support at all
  stages of the process.
(i) The principles of natural justice and procedural fairness will be observed. These principles include:
the person who is the subject of concern must be informed of all the allegations in relation to
    his/her behaviour
he/she must have a full opportunity to put his/her case
all parties to the complaint must have the right to be heard
all relevant submissions and evidence must be considered
irrelevant matters must not be taken into account
the decision-maker must be impartial, fair and just.
(j) Confidentiality will be respected and maintained at all times within the constraints of the need
  to fully investigate the matter, subject to any legal requirements for disclosure and consistent with
  the principles of natural justice.
(k) Where it is considered by a University officer responsible for grievance resolution that the alleged
  actions or behaviours which constitute the grievance may amount to misconduct or serious misconduct
  as defined in the relevant enterprise bargaining agreement or policy, the matter must be reported to
  the Vice-Chancellor. The Vice-Chancellor may decide to handle the matter in accordance with the relevant
  procedures for misconduct and serious misconduct (Clause 44, 
Enterprise Bargaining Agreement (Academic Staff)
 for an academic staff member, Clause 49, 
Enterprise Bargaining Agreement (Professional Staff), Disciplinary Action for Misconduct and Serious Misconduct - Senior Staff (MOPP 
B/8.5),  or the appropriate student procedures).
Top 
6.1.3 Framework for procedures 
(a) The following procedures arise from this policy but are separate to this policy:
Grievance Resolution Procedures for Workplace Related Grievances and Bullying
Grievance Resolution Procedures for Discrimination Related Grievances
Grievance Resolution Procedures for Student Related Grievances
(b) Before initiating any action under the grievance resolution procedures referred to in (a) above,
  a complainant is advised to seek information and support in relation to these procedures from the Equity
  Services, the Human Resources Department, Student Ombudsman, Discrimination Contact Officer, or their
  staff representative or Student Guild. University officers will guide complainants to the appropriate
  procedures. If it is found that the procedures initiated are not appropriate to the grievance, the
  University has the right to determine under which of its procedures the grievance will be handled.
  Where this occurs the University will advise the complainant of the procedures under which the grievance
will be handled.
(c) Staff and students are encouraged to resolve grievances between themselves, where possible.
(d) Common to the procedures for dealing with workplace, discrimination and student related grievances
  is the three-level grievance resolution process available within the University. The three level process
  emphasises the resolution of the issue at the lowest possible level. Tribunals external to the University
  are also available on most matters of grievances. The three level process is summarised below:
Level 1 - Early conciliation
Level 2 - Further conciliation and/or investigation
Level 3 - Investigation.
Top 
Related Documents 
MOPP B/8.1 QUT Code of Conduct
MOPP B/10.1 Grievance Resolution Procedures - Workplace Related Grievances and Bullying
MOPP E/9.2 Grievance Resolution Procedures - Student Related Grievances
MOPP A/8.5 Grievance Resolution Procedures - Discrimination Related Grievances
MOPP B/8.5 Disciplinary Action for Misconduct and Serious Misconduct - Senior Staff
MOPP E/2.1 QUT Student Code of Conduct
MOPP E/8.1 Management of student discipline
  MOPP Appendix 1(c) - QUT Student Rules
  QUT Enterprise Bargaining Agreement (Professional Staff)
QUT Enterprise Bargaining Agreement (Academic Staff) 
Top 
Modification History 
Date
Sections
Source
Details
17.11.05
All
Vice-Chancellor
Revised policy to comply with Higher Education Workplace Relations Requirements (HEWRR)
14.06.02
All
Vice-Chancellor
Approved new policy
Top 
    Chapter A | Chapter B | Chapter C | Chapter D | Chapter E | Chapter F | Chapter G | Chapter H | Chapter I | Appendices | Protocol for MOPP Policy | Recent Updates
    QUT Home | MOPP Home
    CRICOS No. 00213J
    Privacy | Copyright | Accessibility
    Last modified 31-Aug-2010
    Contact us | Feedback | Disclaimer
