QUT | MOPP | A/7.1 Indemnity and insurance
            QUT&nbsp;Home
          Contact&nbsp;us
          Search
      MOPP Home
      Protocol for MOPP Policy
      Recent Updates
      A/7.1 Indemnity and insurance
Chapters
A - Governance/Organisation
B - Human Resources
C - Learning/Teaching
D - Research/Development
E - Student Administration
F - Information Management
G - Financial Management
H - Physical Facilities
I - International/Community
MOPP Appendices
MOPP Protocol
MOPP Updates
[Print-friendly version]
Contact OfficerExecutive Director, Finance and Resource Planning 
Approval Date20/04/2005 
Approval AuthorityCouncil 
Date of Next Review01/12/2007 
7.1.1 Indemnity - staff and other officers 
7.1.2 Indemnity - external parties 
7.1.3 Insurance 
7.1.4 Writs and legal liability 
Related Documents 
Modification History 
    THIS POLICY IS CURRENTLY UNDER REVIEW - CONTACT  EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR, FINANCE AND RESOURCE PLANNING, FOR FURTHER DETAILS.    
7.1.1 Indemnity - staff and other officers 
a) University employees
As an employer, QUT Council indemnifies staff in respect of the lawful and proper actions considered to be within the scope of their employment at the University.
Council recognises that many officers perform difficult and delicate duties and functions, and that in the course of such duties they may be exposed to claims for damages. Such officers should not be restricted in carrying out their duties and functions by any fear that they may have to make payment regarding any claim arising out of due performance of these duties and functions.
QUT accepts full and sole responsibility for all claims including the cost of defending or settling them in cases where, in the reasonable opinion of the Council, the officer concerned has diligently and conscientiously endeavoured to carry out his or her duties and has complied with QUT policies and procedures.
Where QUT makes any payment in settlement of a claim which has arisen as a result of an officer endeavouring to carry out his or her duties in a conscientious and diligent manner, it will not seek to exercise any claim for contribution from the employee.
The University does not accept any liability for any act of an employee which is not related to or connected with his or her employment. This means that staff are insured by QUT only against claims for damages made against them as a result of their work for QUT.
b) Members of QUT committees and voluntary officers
The University provides an indemnity to non-staff who are acting as a QUT committee member or as an individual acting in a voluntary capacity on behalf of QUT.
Top 
7.1.2 Indemnity - external parties 
QUT enters into a number of contracts that require the provision of guarantees or indemnities to external
  parties. QUT has a general approval under the 
Statutory Bodies Financial Arrangements
  Act 1982
(SBFA
Act) to provide guarantees or indemnities subject to:
Council having endorsed that the University's risk mitigation and control strategies are appropriate
        to manage the risk of providing the guarantees or indemnities.
Where QUT does not hold appropriate insurance coverage for the activities of members of its governing
        body or committees, QUT employees or students of the University, or where QUT is not satisfied
    that consultants or contractors engaged by the University hold appropriate insurance coverage for
    these activities, Council must be satisfied that risks are mitigated and warranted prior to the provision
        of a guarantee or indemnity.
QUT officers who have delegated authority (refer 
MOPP
    Appendix 3 – Schedule of Authorities and Delegations
) may only enter into contracts containing
    an indemnity clause in favour of another party where the risk is determined to be low / medium. Where
    the risk is extreme / high, approval by the Treasurer is required (see below).
Low / medium risk indemnities include the following:
Indemnities that are covered by QUT's existing insurance policies or can be covered through an
        extension to such policies, at minimal cost; and
Indemnities that are not covered by QUT's insurance policies or where cover is only available at
        a prohibitive cost, but where a risk assessment (see 
MOPP
        A/2.5
and 
QUT Risk Management Framework
        of the activity has been carried out by the area assessing the impact of the indemnity and the
        relevant delegated officer concludes the risk to the University in giving an indemnity would
        be low / medium.
Extreme / high risk indemnities are those where insurance cover is not available or is only available
  at a prohibitive cost and where a risk assessment of the activity involved concludes the risk to QUT
  in giving an indemnity would be extreme / high. Note: The cost of additional cover is an issue for
  the area involved in the contract negotiation to consider and fund.
The following process is to apply:
Each case is to be assessed in terms of QUT's existing insurance coverage.
If the indemnity is covered by QUT's insurance policies then the indemnity is regarded as low /
        medium risk and the associated contract may be executed.
If the proposed indemnities are not covered by QUT insurance policies or coverage is only available
        at a prohibitive cost, then a 
written
        risk assessment
is to be carried out. The risk assessment is to be reviewed by the relevant
        delegated officer (refer 
Appendix 3 - Schedule
        of Authorities and Delegations
Upon receipt of such risk assessment and any legal opinion considered necessary, the relevant delegated
        officer will decide whether the indemnity is low / medium risk or extreme / high risk and whether
        the contract should be executed on behalf of the University.
If the delegated officer determines that the indemnity is extreme / high risk, a risk mitigation
        strategy is to be prepared and forwarded to Audit and Risk Management Committee for consideration
        and recommendation to Council.
If the risk remains extreme / high following consideration of the risk mitigation strategy, Council
        will authorise the Executive Director, Finance and Resource Planning to seek the Treasurer's
    approval, as required under the SBFA Act.
Upon Treasurer's approval, the delegated officer may sign the contract on behalf of the University.
Wherever possible, indemnities should be worded to ensure that any liability being accepted by QUT
  falls within the scope of coverage provided by QUT's insurance policies. Indemnity clauses entered
  into by QUT with third parties have no bearing on the coverage provided by QUT's insurance policies,
  ie insurers will ignore the indemnity and settle / defend any claims made against QUT in accordance
  with the policy coverage.
Advice from QUT insurers, as well as legal advice, should be sought on the wording of appropriate
  amendments to the relevant clauses in order to ensure QUT's interests are not prejudiced and risks
  are minimised.
Top 
7.1.3 Insurance 
The Corporate Finance Department oversees the appointment of an insurance broker to manage the University's insurance requirements. Details of the insurance broker and the procedures to be followed if the need to make a claim arises are available on the 
Finance and Resource Planning
website.
The following types of insurance are provided:
corporate travel
personal accident
motor vehicle
work experience
industrial special risk
public and products liability
professional indemnity (including medical malpractice insurances)
directors and officers liability.
Information on workers' compensation insurance as required under the 
Workers' Compensation and Rehabilitation Act
is in MOPP 
B/7.6
Top 
7.1.4 Writs and legal liability 
A register of writs containing potential University liability is maintained by the Corporate Finance Director. All writs, with the exception of workers' compensation writs, are to be channelled through the Registrar's Office.
The following procedures provide a guide for the processing of writs, depending on the nature of the writ.
a) Writ of non-party discovery
Writs of non-party discovery are served on the Registrar. In the event that the writ is served by mail or served on another University officer, it should be forwarded to the Registrar's Office for action.
b) Workers' compensation writs
Workers' compensation writs should be forwarded to Health and Safety Advisory Services (Human Resources Department) for action. Further information on procedures to be observed when workers' compensation writs are served is available from 
Health and Safety Advisory Services
c) Other writs
All other writs, including claims covered under University insurance liability policies and contractual disputes not covered by insurance, should be forwarded to the Registrar's Office for determination of the appropriate action.
Top 
Related Documents 
MOPP A/2.5 Risk management policy
MOPP G/6.1 Contract management policy 
MOPP Appendix 3 Schedule of Authorities and Delegations
Top 
Modification History 
Date
Sections
Source
Details
20.04.05
A/7.1.2
Council
Revised approval process relating to extreme / high risk indemnities (endorsed by Audit and Risk Management
 Committee 23.03.05)
08.09.04
A/7.1.1, A/7.1.2, A/7.1.3
Council
Revised policy to clarify QUT's obligations in providing guarantees or indemnities, and to ensure compliance with statutory requirements (endorsed by Audit and Risk Management Committee 01.09.04)
04.03.98
A/7.1.3
Acting Registrar
New procedure
Top 
    Chapter A | Chapter B | Chapter C | Chapter D | Chapter E | Chapter F | Chapter G | Chapter H | Chapter I | Appendices | Protocol for MOPP Policy | Recent Updates
    QUT Home | MOPP Home
    CRICOS No. 00213J
    Privacy | Copyright | Accessibility
    Last modified 12-May-2010
    Contact us | Feedback | Disclaimer
