QUT | MOPP | A/8.4 Equal opportunity and diversity policy
            QUT&nbsp;Home
          Contact&nbsp;us
          Search
      MOPP Home
      Protocol for MOPP Policy
      Recent Updates
      A/8.4 Equal opportunity and diversity policy
Chapters
A - Governance/Organisation
B - Human Resources
C - Learning/Teaching
D - Research/Development
E - Student Administration
F - Information Management
G - Financial Management
H - Physical Facilities
I - International/Community
MOPP Appendices
MOPP Protocol
MOPP Updates
[Print-friendly version]
Contact OfficerEquity Director 
Approval Date29/11/2007 
Approval AuthorityVice-Chancellor 
Date of Next Review01/12/2010 
8.4.1 Policy principles
  8.4.2  Rights and responsibilities
  8.4.3  Inclusive environment and culture 8.4.4  Knowledge and community
   8.4.5  Planning
  Related Documents
  Modification History 
8.4.1 Policy principles 
QUT's vision, goals and organisational values (A/2.1) reflect a belief in  the crucial role of knowledge in understanding and improving the human  condition. 
Consistent with its vision, goals and  organisational values, QUT will infuse social justice philosophy and practices  into all aspects of its activities. Such embedding enhances the University's  core business, as well as enhancing the opportunities of disadvantaged students  and staff.
Informed by global standards of justice and  fairness (eg UN/ILO Conventions), the University's pursuit of social justice is  underpinned by a commitment to equal opportunity and diversity. 
Thus, QUT aims to:
  respect and protect the rights of its students and staff; 
  promote  a fair and inclusive educational and work environment; 
  ensure its graduates possess a sense of social and ethical responsibility; and 
  contribute to the social well-being of Brisbane, Australia  and other nations.
Top
8.4.2 Rights and responsibilities
All students and staff have individual rights
  to    be treated fairly by the University and by each other; and 
  to    study and work in an environment free from discrimination and harassment.
To respect and protect these  rights, QUT will
  educate and inform members of the University community about their rights  and responsibilities (QUT  Code of conduct and QUT  Student Charter); 
  review and reform University practices to ensure they are inclusive and  non-discriminatory; and 
  administer grievance resolution procedures (A/6.1).
Top8.4.3 Inclusive environment and culture
The student and staff body should reflect the cultural and social diversity  of the community. Therefore, under-represented and disadvantaged groups will  have particular outreach and recruitment strategies, especially students and  staff who are Indigenous, low-income students, rural students, and students and  staff with a disability.
All students and staff should experience a sense of belonging which  arises from an inclusive learning and working environment which respects  diversity. Therefore, learning experiences, on-campus services and  administrative procedures for students, as well as career development and  management practices for staff, will be fair. 
With regard to equal opportunity, QUT acknowledges that treating all  people in the same way does not necessarily result in fairness or equality. To  promote equality of outcomes for staff and students, the University recognises  that social disadvantage creates barriers to success, and that targeted  attention to overcome these barriers is a necessary precursor to true equality.  Thus, the University's equal opportunity activities encompass particular  support and assistance measures for students and staff in equity groups at QUT.
The objective is for  the pass rates, attrition rates and satisfaction levels of students in equity  groups to be comparable with those of other students, and for promotion rates,  resignation rates and satisfaction levels of staff in equity groups to be  comparable with those of other staff.
Top8.4.4 Knowledge and community
As an institution whose core business is knowledge, QUT has a unique  role to play in both the social justice knowledge and skills which graduates  acquire, and the social justice aspects of research.
Graduates of QUT will have a sense of social and ethical responsibility,  and an understanding of Indigenous and international perspectives (C/4.3). QUT courses will  be characterised by content, pedagogy and assessment embedded with Indigenous  perspectives, inter-cultural perspectives, and an understanding of social  justice. Students in their work integrated learning and community engagement / service  learning activities should have opportunities to engage with disadvantaged and  marginalised communities.
Staff at QUT will ensure that their research activities include a  positive impact on disadvantaged and marginalised groups in the broader  community.
The University's community engagement activities will reflect its civic  responsibility and be inclusive of culturally and socially diverse communities.
With regard to public policy, the University will contribute its  knowledge, analytical skills and ideas through public debate and consultancies  which include a social justice perspective.
Top8.4.5 Planning
To give effect to its social justice policy aspirations, QUT will infuse  equity considerations into its planning, reporting and accountability  arrangements. Priority issues, such as dealing with student poverty or  supporting staff and students who identify as lesbian, gay, bisexual,  transgender, intersexed or queer (LGBTIQ), will be determined from time to  time. 
Training and awareness-raising programs and appropriate resourcing will  be available to inspire and enable staff and students to engage with social  justice activities. Reward and recognition schemes will acknowledge the  equity-related achievements of staff and students.
Top
Related Documents
MOPP A/2.1 QUT's vision, goals and organisational values
MOPP A/8.3 QUT Reconciliation Statement
MOPP A/8.5 Grievance resolution procedures for discrimination related grievances
MOPP B/8.1 Code of Conduct
MOPP C/4.3 Graduate capabilities
MOPP E/2.1 QUT Student Charter 
TopModification History 
Date
Sections
Source
Details
29.11.07
All
Vice-Chancellor
Revised and renamed policy  as part of revised policy framework for social justice (endorsed by Equity  Board 23.08.07)
Top 
    Chapter A | Chapter B | Chapter C | Chapter D | Chapter E | Chapter F | Chapter G | Chapter H | Chapter I | Appendices | Protocol for MOPP Policy | Recent Updates
    QUT Home | MOPP Home
    CRICOS No. 00213J
    Privacy | Copyright | Accessibility
    Last modified 12-May-2010
    Contact us | Feedback | Disclaimer
