QUT | MOPP | A/8.5 Grievance resolution procedures for discrimination related grievances
            QUT&nbsp;Home
          Contact&nbsp;us
          Search
      MOPP Home
      Protocol for MOPP Policy
      Recent Updates
      A/8.5 Grievance resolution procedures for discrimination related grievances
Chapters
A - Governance/Organisation
B - Human Resources
C - Learning/Teaching
D - Research/Development
E - Student Administration
F - Information Management
G - Financial Management
H - Physical Facilities
I - International/Community
MOPP Appendices
MOPP Protocol
MOPP Updates
[Print-friendly version]
Contact OfficerEquity Director 
Approval Date29/11/2007 
Approval AuthorityVice-Chancellor 
Date of Next Review01/12/2010 
8.5.1 Principles 
8.5.2 Application 
8.5.3 Definitions 
8.5.4 Choices for persons alleging discrimination or harassment 
8.5.5 Discrimination Contact Officers
8.5.6 Procedures
Related Documents
Modification History
8.5.1 Principles 
The University's policy  on grievance resolution ( A/6.1 ) outlines the University's  commitment to ensuring a harmonious, fair and just working and learning  environment, and ensuring access to processes that allow for conflict to be  resolved. QUT's equal opportunity and diversity policy ( A/8.4 ) encodes the University's commitment to a University culture  supportive of equal opportunity and respecting social and cultural diversity.
These procedures are  designed for the resolution of grievances associated with unfair and/or  unlawful discrimination and harassment. 
Top 
8.5.2 Application 
(a) These procedures  apply to discrimination and harassment which can occur in staff / student or  employer / employee relationships, or between peers (student / student or  employee / employee) (see definitions below).
(b) These procedures  apply to QUT activities both on and off campus.
(c) These procedures do  not apply to conflict with other organisations, or with people other than  students, employees or agents of the University. However, if the grievance  arises from a QUT context (for example, harassment at a public function on a  QUT campus) or during a QUT-related activity (for example discrimination  against a student in a work placement), the person affected will be assisted to  access the appropriate complaint mechanism and be provided with support.
(d) Where the behaviour  which gave rise to the grievance might constitute misconduct or serious misconduct,  refer to Clause  6.1.2 (k) in QUT's grievance resolution policy ( A/6.1 ). 
(e) If the alleged behaviour might constitute a  criminal offence, the affected person will be encouraged and assisted to make a  complaint to the police.
Top 
8.5.3 Definitions 
  Discrimination
(a) &quot; Discrimination&quot; means any distinction, exclusion, restriction or preference within QUT's  study and work environment which is based upon a person's sex; marital status;  pregnancy; breastfeeding; race (including colour, descent, ethnic origin and  nationality); age; parental status; physical, intellectual or psychiatric  impairment or disability; religious belief; lawful sexual activity or sexual  orientation; trade union activity; criminal record; social origin; medical  record; political belief or activity; or any other factor that is irrelevant to  a person's ability to work, or study or access services at QUT. Queensland and federal  anti-discrimination laws include most of these grounds.
(b) Discrimination may be  on the basis of actual attributes, such as a person's appearance, racial  background or accent. Discrimination may also be on the basis of assumptions  about a person, for example, because of one of their attributes. As an example,  a person with a disability may not be invited to a work-related social function  or sporting event because it is assumed that someone with a disability would  not want to attend.
(c) Discrimination may be  direct or indirect, as defined by anti-discrimination legislation.
(d) Affirmative action  programs do not constitute unlawful or unfair discrimination. The University  has such programs to assist various groups of people by removing barriers in  employment and education which are the result of historical or existing  disadvantage, harassment and discrimination. These programs are not  inconsistent with anti-discrimination or human rights laws and, for some  groups, are required by law and/or policy.
Harassment
(a) &quot; Harassment  &quot; is a form of discrimination. It refers to offensive behaviour and it may  be based on one of the grounds referred to above, or may be motivated by other  factors. Harassment can take many forms and can range from the subtle to the  obvious. It often occurs in, but is not restricted to, situations where there  is a relationship of power and/or authority of one person over another. It may  occur on one occasion or be a part of a pattern.
(b) Behaviour that some  people may regard as harmless, trivial or a joke may be seen as harassment by  others when it is offensive, humiliating, or distressing.
(c) Harassment includes,  but is not limited to: 
  making denigrating oral, written or e-mail comments,  name-calling, or jokes; displaying or distributing denigrating written or  pictorial material, graffiti, clothing or badges; threatening, bullying,  intimidating or excluding a person because of their gender, race, culture,  disability, or sexuality, for example; 
  expressing stereotypes, that is assumptions about a person,  because of, for example, their gender, race, culture, disability, or sexuality; 
  using University facilities to recruit students or staff to  organisations or groups which advocate unlawful discrimination or harassment; 
  downloading hate sites, pornography or offensive  screensavers from the internet; 
  advocating or inciting hatred towards, physical attacks  upon, or discrimination against people (because of, for example, their gender,  race, culture, disability or sexuality); 
(d) Sexual harassment  includes: 
  stares, leers or offensive hand or body gestures; 
  comments or questions about a person's sexual conduct and/or  private relationships or persistent unwelcome invitations; 
  requests for sexual favours or unwelcome physical conduct  such as brushing against or touching a person; 
  sexual assault or rape. 
(e) The Anti-Discrimination Act 1991 (Qld) prohibits sexual harassment in any location and at any time.
(f) The Disability Discrimination Act 1992 (Cwth) prohibits harassment on the basis  of disability, in the provision of employment, goods and services, and  education.
(g) Both state and  federal anti-discrimination laws specifically refer to racial hatred and/or  vilification. The Anti-Discrimination Act also refers to religious  vilification.
Parties to a complaint
(a) The &quot;complainant&quot; is the aggrieved person who was allegedly subjected to  discrimination or harassment.
(b) The &quot;respondent&quot; is the person or organisation about whom the complaint is made.
(c) The &quot;supervisor&quot; is normally: 
  the immediate supervisor / manager for staff; or 
  the head of school for students. 
Conciliation
(a) &quot; Conciliation  &quot; is the process of resolving a complaint through the parties involved  agreeing to a resolution. A &quot; conciliator &quot; is an independent person  who assists the parties to reach agreement.Top8.5.4 Choices for persons alleging discrimination or harassment
Any person who believes  that they have been discriminated against or harassed may choose to: 
  discuss the matter with the person they feel is  discriminating against or harassing them in an attempt to resolve it constructively, although there is no onus on staff or students to do this  before using these procedures; or 
  resolve the grievance using these procedures (as   outlined in section 8.5.6 below); or 
  lodge a complaint with the Queensland Anti-Discrimination Commission or Human Rights and Equal Opportunity Commission, in which case the University will cooperate with the relevant       Commission in having the matter resolved; or 
  pursue a complaint through the relevant union or the  QUT Student Guild.
Top8.5.5 Discrimination Contact Officers
(a) Discrimination  Contact Officers are located on each campus and are trained to provide  information about discrimination and harassment. These officers are volunteer  staff members and Student Guild officers who have been formally trained for  their role and appointed by the Registrar.  A list of Discrimination Contact Officers is available on the Equity Services website.
(b) Discrimination  Contact Officers provide support and information to any person who believes  they have been discriminated against or harassed, or who believes they may be  accused of such behaviour, or who is involved in the conflict situation in some  other way, for example as a supervisor or witness.
(c) A Discrimination  Contact Officer can: 
  assist in clarifying the situation and exploring options  for resolution; 
  provide information about grievance resolution procedures (internal and external); 
  discuss the possibility of resolving the grievance directly between the parties involved; 
  provide information about, and facilitate access to, appropriate support services; 
  provide advice and assurance about confidentiality; 
  inform the Equity Director (or nominee) of progress. 
(d) A Discrimination  Contact Officer does not conciliate or investigate a complaint, or act as an  advocate for any person involved in the grievance.Top8.5.6 Procedures
There are three levels to  the discrimination-related grievance resolution procedures consistent with the  University's grievance resolution policy ( A/6.1 ). The detailed procedures are described in sections (d), (e) and (f) below.
(a) Requirement to  participate at each level
Staff or students  involved in the grievance must participate in good faith at each level of these  procedures. The Vice-Chancellor will not accept a complaint under the third  level of these procedures unless those in conflict have attempted to resolve  the matter through conciliation, as outlined at the first and second levels.  Conciliation processes at levels one and two will take account of the needs of  the persons involved, and will seek to minimise any stress or anxiety for  participants (see (d)(ii) below).
(b) External avenues
At any stage, the  complainant may lodge a complaint with the Human Rights and Equal Opportunity  Commission (HREOC) or the Queensland Anti-Discrimination Commission (QADC). If  the complainant is already involved with QUT's internal grievance resolution  procedures they must notify the Equity Director who will advise the other  parties involved that the matter will now be dealt with externally.
(c) Support
  (i) Throughout this  process, any person involved in the grievance may request the assistance of the  Equity Director, or a Discrimination Contact Officer, and/or request the  assignment by the Equity Director of a support person such as someone  familiar with cultural and/or social issues relating to Aboriginal or Torres  Strait Islander people, or someone with cross-cultural communication skills.
(ii) Any person may be  supported, and accompanied at any point in the process, by a person of their  choice (for example, a friend, colleague, Discrimination Contact Officer, or  person from the Oodgeroo Unit, International Student Services, GALNET, relevant  union, or QUT Student Guild).
(iii) Support persons  cannot act as advocates.
(d) First level -  Approaching the supervisor for early conciliation
(i) Staff or students  with grievances should raise the matter with an appropriate supervisor or  request a Discrimination Contact Officer to do this on their behalf. Students  should approach their head of school. Staff members should approach either  their supervisor or the supervisor of the other person involved in the  grievance.
(ii) The supervisor may  use a range of strategies to conciliate the grievance including: 
  seeking the assistance of another appropriate supervisor in  resolving the grievance; 
  seeking advice and assistance from the Equity Director or  a Discrimination Contact Officer or involving them in conciliation meetings; 
  requesting the Equity Director to assign a support person  to assist in clarifying the grievance and/or to assist in conciliation ; 
  conducting separate interviews with the persons involved in  the grievance and conveying information from one party to the other; 
  where appropriate, conducting a joint meeting with the  persons involved in the grievance, taking into account the needs and wishes of  the persons involved. 
(iii) This level must be  completed within one week of the supervisor being notified of the grievance.  The Equity Director must be notified if the one week period is exceeded.
(iv) If the grievance is  resolved at this stage, the supervisor will follow up two months later, and at  other times if necessary, with the complainant to ensure that there has been no  further conflict.
(e) Second level -  Investigation and further conciliation
(i) Where the conflict  has not been resolved at the first level, the complainant may refer (or ask the  Discrimination Contact Officer to refer) the matter to the relevant executive  dean of faculty or head of division.
(ii) The executive dean  of faculty or head of division will immediately notify the Equity Director  of the details of the grievance and who is involved. The executive dean of  faculty or head of division will discuss the matter with the Equity Director  who will give formal advice about an appropriate course of action.
(iii) After consulting  with the Equity Director, the executive dean of faculty or head of division  may do any of the following to resolve the grievance: 
  consider all relevant matters including other complaints; 
  make further enquiries ; 
  request the Equity Director to assign a support person to  assist in clarifying the nature of the grievance and/or to assist in  conciliation, for example an Indigenous person; 
  where appropriate, delegate the matter to a lower level  manager in the faculty or division; 
  appoint a trained person to conduct conciliation through  separate interviews or a joint meeting with the persons involved. The Equity Director will advise the executive dean of faculty or head of division on an  appropriate conciliator. This person may be a University officer or an external  conciliator, depending on the circumstances of the case; 
  conduct an investigation, or appoint a trained person to do  so on their behalf, on advice of the Equity Director. Any investigation must  be consistent with the principles outlined in section 6.1.2 of the University's  grievance resolution policy ( A/6.1 ). 
  assess the validity of information; 
  with the agreement of the persons involved in the grievance,  implement action to resolve the grievance; 
  make findings and take decisions within his/her delegated  authority; 
  refer the matter to the Vice-Chancellor. 
(iv) This level should be  completed within two weeks. The executive dean of faculty or head of division  must immediately notify the Equity Director of the outcome.
(v) If the grievance is  resolved at this stage, the executive dean of faculty or head of division will  follow up two months later, or at other times if necessary, with the  complainant to ensure that there has been no further conflict.
(f) Third level - Formal  investigation by the Vice-Chancellor
(i) If the grievance is  not resolved at the second level, the complainant may lodge a written complaint  with the Vice-Chancellor requesting a formal investigation.
(ii) Except in special  circumstances, as determined by the Vice-Chancellor with advice from the Equity  Director, a complaint will not be accepted if more than nine months have  elapsed since the last alleged incident of discrimination or harassment.
(iii) On receiving a  written complaint, the Vice-Chancellor will constitute a panel, on advice from  the Registrar, to investigate the  complaint.
(iv) The panel shall  consist of: 
  an independent chair (external to the University and the  governing body); 
  two persons from the University staff or student body,  nominated by the Vice-Chancellor in consultation with the relevant union/s or  QUT Student Guild. 
(v) The panel will  include at least one woman and one man. Where necessary, the Vice-Chancellor  may co-opt a specialist adviser to assist the panel, such as someone with  knowledge of Aboriginal or Torres Strait Islander cultures, cultural diversity,  sexuality or disability issues.
(vi) The role of the  panel is to conduct a thorough investigation into the complaint to provide  advice to the Vice-Chancellor on whether or not the complaint is substantiated.  Any investigation will be consistent with natural justice and procedural  fairness as outlined in the University&rsquo;s grievance resolution policy (see A/6.1).
(vii) In carrying out its  task, the panel should: 
  interview the complainant; 
  interview the respondent; 
  interview all relevant witnesses; 
  interview any other University officer involved at levels one  and two; 
  respect the fact that support persons such as the  Discrimination Contact Officers and the Equity Director or Equity staff will  not be able to reveal confidential information without the permission of the  person they are supporting; 
  request a report from the executive dean of faculty or head  of division about any investigations conducted at level two; 
  review any other relevant documents; 
  consider the complaint in the context of QUT policy and  relevant legislation; 
  seek advice from any person it deems appropriate; 
  give the complainant and the respondent an opportunity to  respond to all relevant information gathered; 
  make a finding, on the balance of probabilities, on whether  the complaint is substantiated, and whether there are any mitigating  circumstances. 
(viii) The panel will  report its findings to the Vice-Chancellor who will determine appropriate  action. With respect to these procedures, the Vice-Chancellor's determination  will be final.
(ix) The third level must  be completed within one month of the lodgement of a written complaint to the  Vice-Chancellor.
(g) Victimisation
(i) Disciplinary action  can be taken against any person who victimises another person because of their  involvement in these grievance resolution procedures, or because of their  support of a complainant or respondent.
(ii) Such victimisation  could include, for example, harassing or bullying the complainant or  respondent, or making overt or implied threats about a person's academic or  career progress.
(h) Confidentiality and  defamation
(i) All care shall be  taken to protect confidentiality, consistent with Clause 6.1.2(j) of the  University's grievance resolution policy ( A/6.1 ). 
(ii) Provided that University procedures are followed  and the persons involved act in accordance with their duties and in good faith,  staff are indemnified by the University against any loss or damage incurred by  a relevant legal action taken against them. Seeking information from a  supervisor or Discrimination Contact Officer about alleged behaviour, or  lodging a complaint about such behaviour, would not normally constitute  defamation. However, conveying information about a complaint to anyone who does  not have a genuine need to know may open up the possibility of being sued for  defamation.
TopRelated Documents
MOPP A/6.1 Grievance resolution policy
Top
Modification History 
Date
Sections
Source
Details
29.11.07
All 
Vice-Chancellor 
Procedures renumbered to A/8.5  (formerly A/8.11) as part of revised policy framework for social justice  (endorsed by Equity Board 23.08.07)
14.06.02
All 
Vice-Chancellor 
Approved new procedures 
Top 
    Chapter A | Chapter B | Chapter C | Chapter D | Chapter E | Chapter F | Chapter G | Chapter H | Chapter I | Appendices | Protocol for MOPP Policy | Recent Updates
    QUT Home | MOPP Home
    CRICOS No. 00213J
    Privacy | Copyright | Accessibility
    Last modified 12-May-2010
    Contact us | Feedback | Disclaimer
