QUT | MOPP | A/8.6 Disability services policy
            QUT&nbsp;Home
          Contact&nbsp;us
          Search
      MOPP Home
      Protocol for MOPP Policy
      Recent Updates
      A/8.6 Disability services policy
Chapters
A - Governance/Organisation
B - Human Resources
C - Learning/Teaching
D - Research/Development
E - Student Administration
F - Information Management
G - Financial Management
H - Physical Facilities
I - International/Community
MOPP Appendices
MOPP Protocol
MOPP Updates
[Print-friendly version]
Contact OfficerEquity Director 
Approval Date29/11/2007 
Approval AuthorityVice-Chancellor 
Date of Next Review01/12/2010 
8.6.1 Principles 
8.6.2 Objectives 
8.6.3 Definitions 
8.6.4 Provisions for people with a disability 
Related Documents
Modification History
8.6.1 Principles
Consistent with the University&rsquo;s commitment  to social justice (see A/8.4 ), the University supports the right  of people with a disability to work or study in an accessible and inclusive  environment, free from discrimination.
QUT takes all reasonable steps to provide an  inclusive learning and working environment which respects diversity and the  dignity of all staff and students. This policy seeks to ensure equal  opportunities for people with a disability to participate in all aspects of  University life, including education and employment.
QUT recognises its  legal obligations under current State and Commonwealth anti-discrimination  legislation, principally: 
  Disability  Discrimination Act 1992 (Cwth) 
  Disability  Standards for Education 2005 (Cwth) 
  Anti-Discrimination  Act 1991(Qld).
Under this legislation the University can be  vicariously liable for discrimination or harassment against a person with a  disability by a member of staff or any of its agents. Top
8.6.2 Objectives
The University';s approach to implementing  this policy includes:
  The requirements of people with a disability are recognised  and embedded in the planning process, resource allocation, and the development  of policy (see QUT Disability Action  Plan ). Resources will be sufficient to ensure an appropriate level of  services to students and staff.
  Reasonable accommodations are provided for people with a  disability, which neither advantage nor disadvantage them in comparison to  other people not receiving disability support services.
  Access to work and study, by law, is not limited on the  basis of the cost of services and accommodations required, unless the  adjustments would impose &quot;unjustifiable hardship&quot; on the University.
  The physical environment on all campuses should be  accessible and safe and easy for people with a disability to negotiate. All new  buildings are designed in accordance with the appropriate standards and codes.  The University is improving access to older buildings, where possible, to meet  these standards.
  The University respects the rights of people with a  disability to privacy and confidentiality (see F/6.2 ) and may seek information about a person's disability primarily for the purpose  of a request for reasonable accommodation. This information remains  confidential and is not part of the person's open record of employment or  academic progress. 
  The University provides programs for staff to promote  awareness of disability issues.
Top
8.6.3 Definitions
Discrimination 
&ldquo; Discrimination &ldquo; means treating people with a disability less favourably  than people without that disability would be treated under the same  circumstances. For further details on definitions of discrimination, refer to the  University&rsquo;s grievance resolution procedures for discrimination related  grievances ( A/8.5 ). 
Disability
As outlined in  legislation, a disability may be temporary or permanent, total or partial, physical,  psychological or psychiatric, life-long or acquired. Also included are people  who require devices or aids for assistance, or are accompanied by guide dogs or  other assistance animals as defined by the relevant legislation.
Reasonable accommodation
&quot; Reasonable  accommodation &ldquo; refers to administrative, physical or procedural alterations  required to ensure equal opportunity for a person with a disability.
Unjustifiable hardship
In some cases it may be  unreasonable for the University to make certain adjustments. Relevant  circumstances in determining unjustifiable hardship include: the nature of the  benefit or detriment likely to accrue or be suffered by any persons concerned;  and the financial circumstances of the institution and the cost of making the  required adjustments. A thorough understanding of the effect of the disability  on the individual and the impact of any adjustment or alteration is required in  order to determine whether such adjustments are reasonable and necessary. The  relevant State and Commonwealth administrative bodies require detailed evidence  to support a claim of unjustifiable hardship.
Top
8.6.4 Provisions for people with a disability
(a) Provisions for students with a  disability
The needs of a student  with a disability are assessed on an individual basis, following consultation  between the student and a University disability adviser. The disability adviser  makes recommendations for reasonable accommodations based on the functional  limitations imposed by the disability and the supporting documentation provided  by the student. Recommendations, in the form of a service plan, are forwarded  to the relevant faculty / school liaison person for distribution to teaching  staff. 
Particular support services are  available for students with a disability. Further information is available in  the publication Guide for Students with a Disability .
Staff seeking additional  information are referred to the publication and website: Supporting Students with a Disability: a guide for  staff which includes information on common forms of disability,  effective communication, teaching strategies, curriculum design and assessment.  See also  policy on alternative  arrangements for assessment for students with a disability ( E/6.3 )
(b) Provisions for employment
QUT actively encourages the employment of  people with a disability. Supervisors and managers should be aware of the  relevant legislation and policies relating to employment of people with a  disability and ensure that all employment procedures are appropriate and  non-discriminatory.
In  considering a candidate with a disability for a specific job, the University  makes adjustments in the workplace and adjustments to work conditions, if  required.
Workers  with a disability are afforded equal opportunities to acquire the skills and  experience necessary to advance in their careers.
The University provides  advice, information and services, upon request, to staff with a disability  and/or the section of the University in which the person is employed or is  seeking employment.
(c) Other provisions
It is the responsibility  of the student or staff member to substantiate their eligibility for disability  services.
People with mobility  impairment should be aware of the parking regulations in force on each campus.  Further details are available from the Facilities  Management website.
The University ensures  that all essential educational, administrative and promotional material is  available in alternative formats for access by people with a disability.
A working party of Equity Board ( A/8.9 ) reviews and  recommends policies and practices relating to the needs of people with a  disability.
Top
Related Documents
MOPP A/8.4 Equal opportunity and  diversity policy.
MOPP A/8.9 Equity Board
Top
Modification History
     Date
     Sections
     Source
     Details
    29.11.07
    All 
    Vice-Chancellor 
    Revised and renumbered policy  (formerly A/8.3) as part of revised policy framework for social justice (endorsed  by Equity Board 23.08.07) 
    27.04.99
    All 
    Vice-Chancellor 
    New policy
    Chapter A | Chapter B | Chapter C | Chapter D | Chapter E | Chapter F | Chapter G | Chapter H | Chapter I | Appendices | Protocol for MOPP Policy | Recent Updates
    QUT Home | MOPP Home
    CRICOS No. 00213J
    Privacy | Copyright | Accessibility
    Last modified 28-Oct-2010
    Contact us | Feedback | Disclaimer
