QUT | MOPP | A/9.4 Children on campus
            QUT&nbsp;Home
          Contact&nbsp;us
          Search
      MOPP Home
      Protocol for MOPP Policy
      Recent Updates
      A/9.4 Children on campus
Chapters
A - Governance/Organisation
B - Human Resources
C - Learning/Teaching
D - Research/Development
E - Student Administration
F - Information Management
G - Financial Management
H - Physical Facilities
I - International/Community
MOPP Appendices
MOPP Protocol
MOPP Updates
[Print-friendly version]
Contact OfficerAssociate Director, HR Health and Safety Advisory Services 
Approval Date18/11/2009 
Approval AuthorityRegistrar 
Date of Next Review01/12/2012 
9.4.1 Children on campus policy 
9.4.2 Application 
9.4.3 Principles 
9.4.4 Procedures 
Modification History 
9.4.1 Children on campus policy 
QUT recognises the diversity of needs and demands placed on staff and students 
  when balancing work, study and family responsibilities, and that occasionally 
  it may be necessary to bring a child or children onto campus.
Regular or occasional attendances of a child or  children on campus must be approved by the relevant supervisor based on a risk  assessment.
This policy should be read in conjunction with the University's policy on childcare 
and family responsibilities (A/8.8).
Top 
9.4.2 Application 
The children on campus policy applies to all students and staff members. This 
  policy does not apply to situations where a child is brought on campus for the 
  purpose of attending a registered child care facility, the Early Childhood Development 
  Unit, clinics and approved programs such as vacation care.
Top 
9.4.3 Principles 
Under the 
 Workplace Health and Safety Act 1995 (Qld)
QUT has obligations to ensure the health 
  and safety of all, including children, at or near the workplace. The legislation 
  requires that students and staff meet the following obligations:
to follow instructions related to their study or employment at QUT
to not interfere with or misuse anything provided for health and safety
to not place others or themselves at risk.
Consistent with these obligations, a student or staff member must consider 
  the following issues prior to bringing a child on campus.
It is anticipated that students will make all reasonable attempts to arrange 
  alternative childcare before bringing a child to the workplace.
  It is       anticipated that staff will make all reasonable attempts to arrange       alternative child care before bringing a child to the workplace or avail       themselves of flexible work practices or leave options (eg flexible hours       arrangements, personal leave) where available and appropriate.
   Approval to bring a child on campus should be obtained from the relevant staff 
    member or supervisor as soon as practical, ie in advance if possible or on 
    arrival.
   Children must not enter areas where potentially dangerous equipment or hazardous 
    substances are present or areas that are subject to particular statutory or 
    local regulations.
   A common sense approach is necessary when bringing children on campus. For 
    example, children recently exposed to an infectious illness (eg chicken pox, 
    rubella, mumps), or who are known to be ill, must not be brought on campus.
It is important that the child's presence on campus does not result in disruption 
    to the workplace, including classes and non-teaching areas such as the Library.Top 
9.4.4 Procedures 
Further information and detailed procedures relating to this policy are  available on the HR Health  and Safety Advisory Services website.Top 
Modification History 
Date
Sections
Source
Details
   18.11.09
   All
  Associate Director, HR  Health and Safety Advisory Services
  Periodic review &ndash; minor revisions  only
10.06.05
All
Registrar
Policy reviewed (no change required)
02.07.04
All
Registrar
Policy reviewed and links updated
23.06.03
All
Registrar
Updated to combine separate policies for children of staff 
      and children of students into one policy
18.6.2000
All
Vice-Chancellor
New policy relating to children of students on campus (endorsed 
      by Vice-Chancellor's Advisory Committee 10.8.00 and 18.5.00, and University 
      Health and Safety Committee 19.8.99
19.11.1998
All
Vice-Chancellor
New policy relating to children of staff on campus (endorsed 
      by Vice-Chancellor's Advisory Committee 19.11.98 and University Health and 
      Safety Committee 28.5.98)
Top 
    Chapter A | Chapter B | Chapter C | Chapter D | Chapter E | Chapter F | Chapter G | Chapter H | Chapter I | Appendices | Protocol for MOPP Policy | Recent Updates
    QUT Home | MOPP Home
    CRICOS No. 00213J
    Privacy | Copyright | Accessibility
    Last modified 11-Nov-2010
    Contact us | Feedback | Disclaimer
