QUT | MOPP | A/9.3 Biosafety/health and safety in research
            QUT&nbsp;Home
          Contact&nbsp;us
          Search
      MOPP Home
      Protocol for MOPP Policy
      Recent Updates
      A/9.3 Biosafety/health and safety in research
Chapters
A - Governance/Organisation
B - Human Resources
C - Learning/Teaching
D - Research/Development
E - Student Administration
F - Information Management
G - Financial Management
H - Physical Facilities
I - International/Community
MOPP Appendices
MOPP Protocol
MOPP Updates
[Print-friendly version]
Contact OfficerAssociate Director, HR Health and Safety Advisory Services 
Approval Date23/06/2003 
Approval AuthorityRegistrar 
Date of Next Review01/07/2005 
9.3.1 Biosafety/health and safety issues in research 
9.3.2 Clearance process 
9.3.3 Genetically modified organisms (GMOs) 
9.3.4 Ethical clearance and biosafety/health and safety issues 
Modification History 
    THIS POLICY IS CURRENTLY UNDER REVIEW PENDING FEDERAL LEGISLATIVE CHANGES.    
9.3.1 Biosafety/health and safety issues in research 
Research can involve a range of biosafety and broader health
and safety issues. These issues can represent a risk to the
research subjects
research team
University community
wider community, and the
environment.
The University takes its role in relation to managing these
risks extremely seriously. When planning a research project a
researcher should consider what biosafety/health and safety
issues relate to their proposed study.
Biosafety/health and safety issues in research include
working with a human pathogen
work where there is a risk of physical injury
work with ionising radiation, and
work with materials where there is a risk of contagion.
Researchers who are unsure whether their study involves any biosafety/health 
  and safety considerations should consult with their faculty's Workplace Health 
  and Safety Officer or the Chemical and Biosafety Advisor located within HR Health 
  and Safety Advisory Services.
See section 
D/6
for information on ethics 
  and experimentation in research.
Top 
9.3.2 Clearance process 
Faculties must establish a process for confirming that the biosafety/health 
  and safety issues relating to research conducted by their researchers have been 
  considered and appropriately addressed.
Given the diverse nature of research at QUT, there is no
single prescribed model for the consideration of biosafety/health
and safety issues. For example, some faculties may elect to
establish a distinct biosafety committee, while others might
elect to add this responsibility to the role of their existing
health and safety committee.
Faculties can elect to delegate this responsibility to the
School level, but must maintain appropriate monitoring/auditing
mechanisms and records of same. Faculties may elect to seek
additional advice on biosafety/health and safety issues from HR
Health and Safety Advisory Services, or from an appropriate
expert (internal or external).
Faculties must submit their clearance process for the clearance of biosafety/health 
  and safety in research projects to the Deputy Vice-Chancellor (Research and 
  Commercialisation) for approval. The Deputy Vice-Chancellor (Research and Commercialisation) 
  may elect to randomly audit a faculty's process.
Top 
9.3.3 Genetically modified organisms (GMOs) 
The 
Gene Technology Act 2000
defines a genetically modified organism 
  (GMO) to mean:
an organism that has been modified by gene technology; or
an organism that has inherited traits from an organism (the initial organism), 
    being traits that occurred in the initial organism because of gene technology; 
    or
anything declared by the Gene Technology Regulations to be a genetically 
    modified organism, or that belongs to a class of things declared by the Regulations 
    to be genetically modified organisms; 
    but does not include:
a human being, if the human being is covered by paragraph (a) only because 
    the human being has undergone somatic cell gene therapy; or
an organism declared by the Regulations not to be a genetically modified 
    organism, or that belongs to a class of organism declared by the Regulations 
    not to be genetically modified organisms.
In order to understand the definition of GMO it is important that two further 
  terms are understood - 
organism
and 
gene technology
Organism
is defined in the 
Gene Technology Act
to mean a 
  biological entity that is viable, capable of reproduction or capable of transferring 
  genetic material.
Gene technology
is defined as any technique for the modification 
  of genes or other genetic material, but does not include sexual reproduction, 
  homologous recombination or any other techniques specified in the Regulations.
Biosafety issues relating to research involving GMOs are considered by QUT 
  Institute Biosafety Committee  (see section 
D/6.6
  QUT Institute Biosafety Committee  has been accredited by the Gene Technology 
  Regulator to represent QUT and is responsible for ensuring that QUT has quality 
  assurance systems in place to comply with the legislation. These systems include 
  internal checking of applications, systems of record keeping and reporting, 
  and procedures for training of staff dealing with GMOs. All projects involving 
  GMOs must be submitted to this committee for clearance.
The membership of QUT Institute Biosafety Committee  includes an adviser 
  from within the School of Life Sciences. Researchers from outside the School 
  of Life Sciences should make arrangements for a person with appropriate discipline 
  and biosafety expertise to be available to advise QUT Institute Biosafety Committee 
  if required.
Top 
9.3.4 Ethical clearance and biosafety/health and safety issues 
Where the project requires ethical clearance, final clearance will be subject 
  to faculty biosafety/health and safety clearance, and/or QUT Institute Biosafety 
  Committee  clearance, if appropriate to the study. The relevant ethics 
  committee need only be provided with a memorandum indicating that biosafety 
  / health and safety clearance has been granted by the faculty. Such clearances 
  can be sought in parallel, but the research cannot be commenced until both ethical 
  clearance and biosafety / health and safety clearance have been obtained.
Top 
Modification History 
Date
Sections
Source
Details
23.06.03
All
Registrar
Updated in accordance with revised health and safety policy
09.07.01
All
Pro-Vice-Chancellor (Research and Advancement)
Updated to reflect changes to QUT Institute Biosafety Committee (GTR) 
      in accordance with new Gene Technology Act
19.11.2001
All
Registrar
Updated in accordance with minor changes to Workplace Health and Safety 
      Act 1995
15.12.99
All
Registrar
New policy (endorsed by University Health and Safety Committee 19.8.99)
Top 
    Chapter A | Chapter B | Chapter C | Chapter D | Chapter E | Chapter F | Chapter G | Chapter H | Chapter I | Appendices | Protocol for MOPP Policy | Recent Updates
    QUT Home | MOPP Home
    CRICOS No. 00213J
    Privacy | Copyright | Accessibility
    Last modified 12-May-2010
    Contact us | Feedback | Disclaimer
