QUT | MOPP | A/9.1 Health and safety policy
            QUT&nbsp;Home
          Contact&nbsp;us
          Search
      MOPP Home
      Protocol for MOPP Policy
      Recent Updates
      A/9.1 Health and safety policy
Chapters
A - Governance/Organisation
B - Human Resources
C - Learning/Teaching
D - Research/Development
E - Student Administration
F - Information Management
G - Financial Management
H - Physical Facilities
I - International/Community
MOPP Appendices
MOPP Protocol
MOPP Updates
[Print-friendly version]
Contact OfficerAssociate Director, HR Health and Safety Advisory Services 
Approval Date12/07/2010 
Approval AuthorityRegistrar 
Date of Next Review01/07/2013 
9.1.1 Health and safety policy 
9.1.2 Legislative framework 
Related Documents 
Modification History 
9.1.1 Health and safety policy 
QUT as an employer is committed to providing a workplace which is as safe as is practicable in order
to achieve its vision and goals.
QUT management is accountable for managing the risks in partnership with the University's staff and students. Management
 includes QUT Council, the Vice-Chancellor, senior University Officers and managers, academic staff and supervisors
 who will consult with staff, students and others to achieve desired measurable outcomes within a continuous
 improvement framework.
QUT will meet its legislative obligations and exceed them where feasible, using a risk management
 approach to include the provision of
safe systems of work and work environment, both on and off campus
safe plant, equipment, tools and personal protective equipment
safe use, handling, storage and disposal of substances
adequate information and training
rehabilitation programs for injured workers
appropriate supervision and enforcement of policies and procedures to ensure safe work practices,
  and
a system for eliminating or minimising hazards.
Staff, students and others have an obligation to follow safe work practices, 
 not to act in a manner so as to cause harm to people or property, to report 
 hazards, and not to misuse anything provided in the interests of safety.
The 
HR 
 Health and Safety Advisory Services
website provides procedural guidance 
 on a range of matters to support the QUT health and safety policy. Information 
 is updated when the sources are modified by external health and safety authorities.
Top 
9.1.2 Legislative framework 
Under common law, employers have a duty of care to take all reasonable measures 
 to protect their employees from foreseeable risks arising from their employment. 
 This duty of care embraces provision of the following
sufficient competent staff
a safe system or method of work
a safe work environment
safe plant and equipment including procedures to prevent reasonably foreseeable misuse of such
adequate training, instruction and supervision
The Queensland Workplace Health and Safety Act 1995 and other Acts 
 create a statutory obligation for relevant persons such as employers to ensure the health and safety 
 of employees and other persons at work. The onus of proof of meeting this duty 
 rests with the employer or, at QUT, those delegated as such. The burden of proof 
 is 'on the balance of probability'.
The major elements of the employer's obligations are to ensure a safe workplace 
 for all through identifying hazards, assessing the risk, eliminating the risk 
 or minimising the potential harmful consequences of the hazard.
Employees also have an obligation under the Act to maintain healthy and safe 
 workplace conduct. An employee or anyone else at a workplace has the following 
 obligations under Section 36 of the Act
to comply with the instructions given for workplace health and safety at 
  the workplace by the employer or anyone representing the employer
for an employee - to use personal protective equipment if the equipment is 
  provided by the employer and the employee is properly instructed in its use
not to wilfully or recklessly interfere with or misuse anything provided for 
  workplace health and safety
not to wilfully place at risk the health and safety of any person at the workplace
not to wilfully injure himself or herself.
Persons other than an employer or employee, including students, visitors and contractors, must comply with the standards applying 
 at the workplace and obey safety directions at that workplace.
The Workplace Health and Safety Act  defines and requires an employer to record 
 and, in certain instances, notify the relevant government authority of injuries, illnesses and dangerous events at the workplace. 
 Any serious or potentially serious matters should be immediately telephoned 
 through to HR Health and Safety Advisory Services staff (07 3138 9271) or, if after hours, to Security (07 3138 5585) who will contact the Associate Director, HR Health and Safety Advisory Services.
The Queensland Workplace Health and Safety Regulation 2008  under the Workplace Health and Safety Act sets specific requirements 
 with regard to systems of work, working environment, plant, equipment, substances 
 and materials used in the workplace, and certification and training of employees. 
 This regulation calls up a number of Australian Standards.
Copies of the Act, Regulation and Codes of Practice are available on the internet 
http://www.deir.qld.gov.au/workplace/index.htm
 and selected Australian Standards are accessible through the QUT Library.
Top 
Related Documents 
A/9.2 Health and safety management
Top 
Modification History 
Date
Sections
Source
Details
  12.07.10
  All
  Registrar
 Periodic review &ndash; minor revisions only
10.06.05
All
Registrar
Policy updated (minor amendment to A/9.1.1 relating to risk management)
02.07.04
All
Registrar
Policy reviewed and links updated
23.06.03
A/9.1.1
Registrar
Approved new health and safety policy (endorsed by University Health and 
   Safety Committee 06.06.03)
19.11.01
All
Registrar
Updated in accordance with minor changes to Workplace Health and Safety 
   Act 1995
09.07.01
A/9.1.2
Pro-Vice-Chancellor (Research and Advancement)
Updated to reflect changes to QUT Institute Biosafety Committee (GTR) 
   in accordance with new Gene Technology Act
15.12.99
A/9.1.2
Registrar
New policy (endorsed by University Health and Safety Committee 19.8.99)
14.10.98
A/9.1.1
Senior HR Officer (Rehabilitation)
Revised Web site for Workplace Health and Safety Act
Top 
    Chapter A | Chapter B | Chapter C | Chapter D | Chapter E | Chapter F | Chapter G | Chapter H | Chapter I | Appendices | Protocol for MOPP Policy | Recent Updates
    QUT Home | MOPP Home
    CRICOS No. 00213J
    Privacy | Copyright | Accessibility
    Last modified 14-Jul-2010
    Contact us | Feedback | Disclaimer
