QUT | MOPP | B/2.2 Distinguished Professor
            QUT&nbsp;Home
          Contact&nbsp;us
          Search
      MOPP Home
      Protocol for MOPP Policy
      Recent Updates
      B/2.2 Distinguished Professor
Chapters
A - Governance/Organisation
B - Human Resources
C - Learning/Teaching
D - Research/Development
E - Student Administration
F - Information Management
G - Financial Management
H - Physical Facilities
I - International/Community
MOPP Appendices
MOPP Protocol
MOPP Updates
[Print-friendly version]
Contact OfficerManager, Policy Planning and Workplace Relations, HR 
Approval Date15/06/2005 
Approval AuthorityCouncil 
Date of Next Review01/12/2009 
2.2.1 Award of the title of Distinguished Professor 
2.2.2 Guidelines 
2.2.3 Procedures 
Modification History 
2.2.1 Award of the title of Distinguished Professor 
QUT values excellence in research and scholarship. In order to reinforce this commitment, it is appropriate
  to reward those staff who demonstrate scholarly endeavour at an extremely high level, and are widely
  acknowledged in their field. Such persons will be eligible to receive the award of the title of Distinguished
  Professor, to reflect the University's commitment to the promotion of intellectual and high impact
research and scholarship.
The award of the title Distinguished Professor will recognise accomplishments of the highest level.
  These accomplishments may be in research as evidenced by an outstanding level of citation, discipline
  influence or commercialisation of ideas, or in the scholarship of teaching that has had significant
  international influence and recognition.
As a proportion of the professoriate, the number of Distinguished Professors should be comparable
  to the proportion of full-time academic staff who are Professors.
It is envisaged that the award will be bestowed only upon current QUT staff.
Top 
2.2.2 Guidelines 
The award of Distinguished Professor should recognise not only past eminence but also potential for
ongoing excellence.
Specific indicators will include:
An impressive portfolio of research grants and major publications with international
      publishers or world class journals, with high impact;
Internationally recognised achievements such as prizes, awards, patents, honours,
    membership of a learned academy or comparable organisation;
Citation by a broad cross-section of peers nationally and internationally;
Reports of at least five referees, external to QUT and of international standing.
Top 
2.2.3 Procedures 
a) The relevant executive dean of faculty, or executive dean of faculty and institute director where
  appropriate, should provide a nomination, in confidence, via the Human Resources Director to the Vice-Chancellor.
  In the case of a Deputy Vice-Chancellor, executive dean of faculty or institute director, the relevant
  supervisor will be the nominator. A nomination for the award of the title of Distinguished Professor
should be accompanied by a detailed justification which includes the nominee's curriculum vitae.
b) Where the Vice-Chancellor considers that the award may be appropriate, the Vice-Chancellor will
  establish a Distinguished Professor Assessment Committee comprising:
Deputy Vice-Chancellor (Academic)
Deputy Vice-Chancellor (Research and Commercialisation)
relevant executive dean of faculty / institute director (or relevant supervisor)
an external nominee of the Vice-Chancellor (normally a distinguished academic from
    a relevant field).
c) The nominee will be invited to provide additional supporting documentation including comments from
  at least five referees who are external to QUT and of international standing.
d) The Distinguished Professor Assessment Committee will consider the supporting documentation, and
  make a recommendation to the Vice-Chancellor.
e) The Vice-Chancellor will make a determination on the suitability of the nominee for the title of
  Distinguished Professor, and decide to approve or decline the granting of the award.
f) The nominee will be notified of the decision by the Vice-Chancellor.
g) The names of successful nominees will be recorded in the Vice-Chancellor's report to Council.
h) All relevant documentation will be held in the Human Resources Department.
Top 
Modification History 
Date
Sections
Source
Details
  27.07.07
   All
   Human Resources Director 
  Policy renumbered to B/2.2 (formerly B/5.2) 
15.06.05
All
Council
New policy (endorsed by Planning and Resources Committee 01.06.05 and Vice-Chancellor's
        Advisory Committee 11.05.05)
Top 
    Chapter A | Chapter B | Chapter C | Chapter D | Chapter E | Chapter F | Chapter G | Chapter H | Chapter I | Appendices | Protocol for MOPP Policy | Recent Updates
    QUT Home | MOPP Home
    CRICOS No. 00213J
    Privacy | Copyright | Accessibility
    Last modified 12-May-2010
    Contact us | Feedback | Disclaimer
