QUT | MOPP | B/3.8 Academic Internship Scheme
            QUT&nbsp;Home
          Contact&nbsp;us
          Search
      MOPP Home
      Protocol for MOPP Policy
      Recent Updates
      B/3.8 Academic Internship Scheme
Chapters
A - Governance/Organisation
B - Human Resources
C - Learning/Teaching
D - Research/Development
E - Student Administration
F - Information Management
G - Financial Management
H - Physical Facilities
I - International/Community
MOPP Appendices
MOPP Protocol
MOPP Updates
[Print-friendly version]
Contact OfficerManager, Policy Planning and Workplace Relations, HR 
Approval Date20/03/2006 
Approval AuthorityVice-Chancellor 
Date of Next Review01/12/2009 
3.8.1 Principles 
3.8.2 Definitions 
3.8.3 Governance 
3.8.4 Eligibility 
3.8.5 Selection, appointment and conditions 
3.8.6 Performance management and development 
Related Documents 
Modification History 
3.8.1 Principles 
QUT is committed to providing world class research training to ensure the development of the next
  generation of researchers and academics and to ensure one of the best teaching and learning environments. Engaging
  research students in teaching and teaching related activities, and providing structured skill development
  work and mentoring, underpins the achievement of this target.
The Academic Internship Scheme offers the opportunity for full-time doctoral candidates to have part-time
  fixed-term employment in the delivery of the University's teaching programs and related support
  services. Positions offered through the scheme form part of the area's workforce
  profile for workforce planning purposes.
The Academic Internship Scheme augments the University stipend-based scholarships awarded through
  central and faculty-based processes, as a further means of providing living support during research
  degree candidature.
Top 
3.8.2 Definitions 
Candidate
means any person admitted to a planned program of research leading to the
  award of a Doctor of Philosophy (PhD) or a Professional Doctorate.
Candidature
means the period of study towards a PhD or Professional Doctorate,
      being the period from the date of commencement as advised by the Research Students Centre until
the thesis is submitted for examination, after which time the candidate holds the status of 'Under
    Examination', or
the candidature is terminated, or
the candidate withdraws.
Top 
3.8.3 Governance 
Governance of the Academic Internship Scheme operates through the Research Degrees Committee.
Academic Interns will be supported cooperatively as a University-wide group, involving administrative
  collaboration across the Research Students Centre, Human Resources Department, Learning and Teaching Unit and the Division of Technology, Information and Learning Support, with the Dean of Research and Research Training as the responsible senior officer. Day-to-day
  supervision of interns will be at school level.
Top 
3.8.4 Eligibility 
To be eligible to apply for an academic internship all the following requirements must normally be
  met.
The candidate must:
apply for the internship prior to initial enrolment in a full-time doctoral program;
enrol in, and maintain satisfactory progress in, a full-time doctoral program within an approved
    research program;
not be in receipt of scholarship funding through APA, APA (I) or QUT PRA schemes.
International PhD students appointed as academic interns will normally be expected to demonstrate English
    language proficiency equivalent to an IELTS overall score of 7, with scores of 7 on all sub-scales.
Top 
3.8.5 Selection, appointment and conditions 
Applications for academic internships will be sought by faculties at appropriate times, in order to
  finalise a selection process in the semester prior to the commencement of PhD enrolments.
Applicants for an academic internship will be assessed against selection criteria and successful applicants
  must be appointable against the selection criteria.
The position of academic intern normally commences with the commencement of a doctoral candidature.
Academic interns are appointed by executive deans of faculty / heads of division.
Appointment is on a three-year fixed-term basis, unless in exceptional circumstances the doctoral
  candidature has already commenced and will normally be a fraction of appointment of 50% (inclusive
  of teaching, contact hours, associated preparation and marking). In exceptional circumstances
  an appointment may be made at under 50%, but not less than 25%, on advice from Research Degrees Committee.
An academic internship will provide a taxable salary for 38 weeks in the year from Week 1 of Semester
  1 to the end of the examinations period in Semester 2. The average time worked per week on teaching
  and teaching related duties will be 18.75 hours over this period, with contact hours in a tutorial
  or practical not normally exceeding eight hours per week. Hours of work and contact hours will
  be pro-rated accordingly for a lesser fraction of appointment.
Alternatively, where the faculty concerned conducts a summer program, participation by the academic
  intern in semester three activities will be by mutual agreement between the intern and the head of
  school in accordance with the provisions in the 
Enterprise
  Bargaining Agreement (Academic Staff)
. In
  such cases payment of the taxable salary will extend over the summer program. Hours of work and
  contact hours will be pro-rated accordingly.
Duties will include conduct of tutorials and practicals, marking, attendance at teaching and academic
  development courses, preparation and student consultation. Lecturing and unit development work
  is specifically excluded so as to not unduly affect doctoral progress. Satisfactory progress
  in the full time Doctoral program will be measured over a full twelve month period. The academic
  intern will be deemed to be on unpaid leave during the non-working periods within the year. This
  arrangement will not constitute a break in service.
The salary starting point for an academic intern is in accordance with the Associate Lecturer salary
  scale (Level A) within the 
QUT Enterprise
  Bargaining Agreement (Academic Staff)
During the remaining 14 weeks of each year a tax free scholarship stipend may be payable at the option
  of the School. The rate of this stipend will not exceed that of an Australian Postgraduate Award
  (APA), however no thesis allowance or relocation allowance is payable.
A one year probationary period will apply for a three year fixed-term appointment in accordance with
  the 
QUT Enterprise Bargaining Agreement (Academic
  Staff)
and this policy. Satisfactory performance
  of teaching duties, as well as successful completion of the doctoral confirmation of candidature is
  required to complete probation.
Not withstanding the above, employment as an academic intern is subject to all relevant conditions
  of employment for academic staff at QUT and University policies.
Top 
3.8.6 Performance management and development 
Academic interns will participate in the Performance Planning and Review Process for Academic Staff
  (PPR-AS) and the supervisor will be the head of school or nominee consistent with the PPR-AS policy.  A
  teaching mentor will be designated for the intern by the head of school.The supervisor will
  consult with the doctoral supervisor in relation to the performance management of the intern.
The intern will be required to participate in appropriate staff development programs focused on the
  development of teaching and academic skills.
Top 
Related Documents 
MOPP B/3.2 Position Descriptions
MOPP B/9.2 Performance Planning and Review for Academic Staff
MOPP D/5.2 Research Degrees Committee
MOPP Appendix 9 Doctor of Philosophy Regulations
QUT Enterprise Bargaining Agreement (Academic Staff)
Research Students Scholarships website
Top 
Modification History 
Date
Sections
Source
Details
  11.02.11
  All
  Governance Services
  Revised terms of reference due to name change from Office of Teaching Quality to Learning and Teaching Unit
20.03.06
All
Vice-Chancellor
New policy (endorsed by Vice-Chancellor's Advisory Committee 22.02.06 and
        Research Degrees Committee 06.02.06)
Top 
    Chapter A | Chapter B | Chapter C | Chapter D | Chapter E | Chapter F | Chapter G | Chapter H | Chapter I | Appendices | Protocol for MOPP Policy | Recent Updates
    QUT Home | MOPP Home
    CRICOS No. 00213J
    Privacy | Copyright | Accessibility
    Last modified 09-Feb-2011
    Contact us | Feedback | Disclaimer
