QUT | MOPP | B/3.5 Academic leadership roles in teaching and learning
            QUT&nbsp;Home
          Contact&nbsp;us
          Search
      MOPP Home
      Protocol for MOPP Policy
      Recent Updates
      B/3.5 Academic leadership roles in teaching and learning
Chapters
A - Governance/Organisation
B - Human Resources
C - Learning/Teaching
D - Research/Development
E - Student Administration
F - Information Management
G - Financial Management
H - Physical Facilities
I - International/Community
MOPP Appendices
MOPP Protocol
MOPP Updates
[Print-friendly version]
Contact OfficerPrincipal HR Officer (Policy and Workplace Relations) 
Approval Date03/12/2007 
Approval AuthorityVice-Chancellor 
Date of Next Review01/12/2010 
3.5.1 Overview  
3.5.2 Assistant dean (teaching and learning) 
3.5.3 Course coordinator 
3.5.4 Study area and program coordinator 
3.5.5 Year coordinators and major coordinators 
3.5.6 Unit coordinator 
3.5.7 Workload  and supervision for coordinator roles
3.5.8 Appointment  of academic leadership roles
Related Documents 
Modification History 
3.5.1 Overview  
QUT recognises a number of  academic leadership roles in teaching and learning, courses and curriculum  development. These include:
  head of school (see A/4.1)
  assistant deans (see A/4.1)
  course coordinators
  study area and program coordinators 
  postgraduate coordinator (see D/5.1.3), 
  year coordinators and major coordinators, and
  unit coordinators.
It is acknowledged that  there may be a limited number of approved equivalent positions (for example, portfolio  directors in the Creative Industries Faculty are regarded as equivalent to heads  of school in other faculties).
  This policy should be read  in conjunction with University policies on:
  course quality assurance (see C/4.6 )
  evaluation of courses, units, teaching and student experience (see C/4.7)
  courses and awards (see C/3.1 for definition of the terms unit, study area and course).
The overarching roles and responsibilities of the various coordinators  and assistant deans (teaching and learning), together with workload, supervision  and appointment processes, are outlined in the sections that follow. 
  The use of academic  leadership role titles other than those described in this policy must be  approved by Deputy Vice-Chancellor (Academic). 
Top 
3.5.2 Assistant dean (teaching and learning) 
(a) Role
  Assistant deans (teaching and learning) report to the executive dean of  faculty and are responsible for strategic leadership of teaching and learning  within the faculty.
  In carrying out their responsibilities, assistant deans (teaching and learning)  work closely with heads of school, course coordinators, and other senior  faculty staff, in providing strategic advice to the executive dean of faculty  and strategic leadership of teaching and learning within the faculty. Assistant  deans (teaching and learning) are members of the faculty executive team. 
(b) Responsibilities 
Assistant  deans (teaching and learning) will generally be expected to undertake the  following:
  Provide leadership on learning and teaching at University and faculty level.
  Implement the University's Learning and Teaching Plan through the development and implementation of the faculty's Learning and Teaching Plan.
  Monitor and report on achievement of key performance indicators relevant to teaching and learning for their faculty.
  Develop and monitor internal policies, guidelines and procedures, to support the University's learning and teaching, course and curriculum policies and practices, and to ensure the adoption of good teaching practices.
  Lead within the faculty the development, implementation and monitoring of faculty quality assurance and improvement strategies for teaching and learning consistent with University policy and requirements, with particular emphasis on:
    course performance and improvement (award, non-award, customised, onshore and offshore)&nbsp; 
    evaluation of teaching quality and student support
    feedback to students in relation to evaluation of teaching and learning.
  Exercise a continuing significant role in developing teaching quality within the faculty and the University including:
    identifying, creating and promoting induction and staff development opportunities in the areas of teaching and learning and scholarship of teaching and learning in conjunction with Learning and Teaching Unit, eLearning Services and Human Resources Department 
    providing strategic advice and support to academic staff in matters related to the development of teaching and learning practice and scholarship of teaching 
    supporting and promoting incentive schemes that reward and promote teaching excellence and innovation.
  Promote effective learning environments that support student retention and learning success with particular emphasis on first year experience, real world learning and transition to professional practice.
  Encourage and promote strong external community input into the faculty's academic programs including professional organisations and employers, and through professional accreditation processes, where appropriate. 
  Work with the faculty's business development and international unit to attract external partnerships in curriculum development and delivery.
  Chair relevant faculty committees on teaching and learning and participate as a member of other relevant faculty committees.
  Represent the faculty on University teaching and learning matters through participation on relevant committees and working parties. 
  Facilitate working relationships on teaching and learning matters within and across faculties and divisions. 
  Develop and oversee budgets for strategic funds allocated to teaching and learning initiatives.
Top 
3.5.3 Course coordinator 
(a) Role
  Course coordinators provide  leadership for a course within the University's teaching and learning  environment through the development, implementation and ongoing review of award  courses for the school / faculty.
  Course coordinators can be  a faculty or school level appointment and such appointments enhance  interfaculty and intrafaculty course coordination. 
(b) Responsibilities
  A course coordinator, in  consultation with the assistant dean (teaching and learning) and heads of  school, and with the support of the study area coordinators, program  coordinators and unit coordinators, will generally be expected to undertake the  following: 
  Provide leadership in course development and approval processes, curriculum development and implementation, course quality assurance and improvement, and professional accreditation where appropriate. 
  Provide leadership at a course level for implementation of QUT teaching and learning priorities, such as first year experience, real world learning and transition to professional practice.
  Support the development and implementation of the faculty's Learning and Teaching Plan. 
  Promote the development of innovative teaching and learning practices in delivery of the course ensuring the integration of graduate capabilities at course level.
  Develop and monitor efforts to improve the course continually, and report through faculty governance processes (eg faculty academic board and faculty advisory committee) on course improvement projects, key performance indicators and other evaluation data relevant to the course performance. 
  Recommend to the faculty academic board, study areas / units to be offered in the course in order to provide an appropriate range of studies in accordance with the objectives and structure of the course. 
  Determine appropriate course plans and advanced standing in consultation with partnering faculties and executive dean nominees (eg assistant deans (teaching and learning), heads of school and other coordinators) for students transferring to the course from another course or institution and, once precedents have been determined, register these with Student Business Services for ongoing administration.
  Consult and liaise with other faculties and relevant divisions on course development and review in conjunction with the assistant dean (teaching and learning).
  Market the course through contributing to presentations, promotional materials and events.
  Ensure processes are implemented, reviewed and maintained to: 
    provide appropriate  information on the course and promote the quality and range of students  enrolled in the course 
    record approved  evolutionary course changes for reference in the course development and  approval process
    provide timely and  effective feedback to students in relation to student evaluation of units  and teaching in the course 
    monitor and analyse  first year retention rates both generally and for specific cohorts
    identify and analyse  reasons for student withdrawal. 
  Work with relevant professional staff in the day-to-day management of course matters such as advanced standing, enrolment, graduation and timetable issues that may impact on student progression. 
  Manage and where appropriate approve other relevant academic matters connected with the course including alternative arrangements for assessment and variations by a student to the standard enrolment program for a particular course. 
  Consult with the assistant dean (teaching and learning) in negotiating with relevant heads of school, centre directors and other faculties regarding teaching, cross faculty teaching and other relevant course issues. 
  Develop collaborative environment within faculty and divisional staff team supporting the course.
  Attend meetings of the faculty / school advisory committee as required.
Top 
3.5.4 Study area and program coordinator 
(a) Role
  Study  area and program coordinators provide leadership in the development and review  of study areas or programs within award courses and provide assistance to the  course coordinator in course development and implementation.
(b) Responsibilities
Study  area and program coordinators, in consultation with the relevant course and  unit coordinators, will generally be expected to undertake the following:
  Provide leadership in study area or program development within the course and assist the course coordinator in course development and approval processes.
  Initiate and implement study area or program improvements with advice from the course coordinator.
  Provide leadership in the study area or program for implementation of  QUT teaching and learning priorities, such as first year experience, real world  learning and transition to professional practice. 
  Market the study area or program through contributing to presentations,  promotional materials and events.
  In conjunction with the course coordinator and other relevant staff, resolve  operational academic and administrative matters.
Top 
3.5.5 Year coordinators and major coordinators 
Year  coordinators and major coordinators have responsibilities similar to those of  study area and program coordinators but focused on the year or major, and are  appointed via a similar process (see B/3.5.8 below). 
Top 
3.5.6 Unit coordinator 
(a) Role
  Unit coordinators have  responsibility for the development, implementation and review of learning and  teaching in units. 
(b) Responsibilities
  Unit coordinators, in  consultation with the relevant study area, program and course coordinators,  will generally be expected to undertake the following: 
  Provide leadership in unit development within the course, in conjunction with the study area coordinator, program coordinator and course coordinator.
  Employ strategies that support the organisation and quality of teaching in the unit and ensure that unit teaching staff operate as a team. 
  Reflect on evaluation data to inform continuous improvement processes.
  Initiate and implement unit improvements to enhance learning and teaching quality, with advice from the study area coordinator, program coordinator and course coordinator.
  Organise curriculum, teaching and assessment materials for the unit, paying particular attention to student needs (eg in first year unit design, attending to the special learning needs of first year students). 
  Prepare the Unit Outline and other related unit information in accordance with the directions of the course coordinator. 
  Moderate the application of standards and quality of marking within a unit. 
  Foster students' progress in the unit and, particularly in first year  units, monitor for signs of student disengagement / weak performance. 
  Provide advice to inform decisions on exceptional unit enrolment  requests and credit for transferring students. 
  Assist in resolving operational and administrative matters associated  with the unit, such as timetabling matters, in cooperation with the study area  coordinator, program coordinator and course coordinator. 
  Apply University and faculty policy to deal with academic matters  including academic dishonesty cases, applications for extension to due date for  assessment and informal review of grades.
  Develop and maintain appropriate online environments for teaching and  assessment materials for the unit (eg Blackboard).
  Communicate with students on unit development and changes to unit  resulting from student feedback.
    Top
3.5.7 Workload  and supervision for coordinator roles
The role of a coordinator  as defined within this policy is recognised as service which encompasses  academic leadership at QUT and is to be considered and included in workload  allocation discussions and arrangements for the staff member appointed to the  role. 
  The overall academic  workload for coordinators is dependant on the size and complexity of the  course, study area, year, program or unit. 
  The staff member appointed  to a coordinator role will report to the supervisor of their substantive  academic appointment for performance planning and review and workload  management purposes. 
Top
3.5.8 Appointment  of academic leadership roles
(a) Assistant  dean (teaching and learning)
  Assistant deans (teaching and learning) are appointed by the relevant authorising officer following a due  recruitment process involving a selection panel (see B/4.3, B/4.4 and Appendix 3  Schedule of Authorities and Delegations). 
The  appointment of an Assistant dean (teaching and learning) will normally be  full-time at SSG level, otherwise at associate professor or professor level, on  a fixed-term appointment of three to five years (renewable). The assistant dean  (teaching and learning) will be a member of the QUT senior management  development program group. 
(b) Course coordinators 
  Course coordinators are appointed by the executive dean of faculty on the  recommendation of the head of school following a due recruitment process  involving a selection panel (see B/4.3 and B/4.4). A separate  coordinator may be appointed for each registered award course. Where a course  is jointly offered by two or more faculties, the course coordinator is selected  by agreement from the participating faculties having regard to the contributing  disciplines in the course. 
Course coordinators are appointed from among the full-time senior lecturers,  associate professors and professors of the faculty. A head of school does not  normally undertake course coordination duties.
  Courses which have large numbers of students,  involve multiple discipline areas (eg multiple study areas in different schools  or faculties) or are master degree courses will normally be coordinated at  associate professor / professor level. Courses with smaller numbers, or having  single discipline or professional focus, will normally be coordinated at senior  lecturer level. 
  Course coordinators serve a  renewable term of up to three years, and would normally serve two terms. 
  If there is no suitable applicant for the role,  the executive dean of faculty, in consultation with the relevant head of school,  will assign the duties of course coordinator. If no senior lecturer, associate  professor or professor is available, then a lecturer will be appointed as  course coordinator and paid at senior lecturer level for the duration of the  appointment. 
(c) Study area, program,  year and major coordinators
  Study area, program, year  and major coordinators are appointed by the executive dean of faculty or  nominee, following consultation with relevant course coordinators, heads of  school and assistant deans (teaching and learning). 
  Study area, program, year  and major coordinators are appointed from among the lecturers, senior  lecturers, associate professors or professors of the faculty. If an associate  lecturer is appointed, they will be paid at lecturer level for the duration of  the appointment.
  Study area and program  coordinators serve a renewable term of up to three years, and would normally  serve two terms. 
(d) Unit coordinators
  Unit coordinators are  appointed by the head of school following consultation with the relevant course  coordinator. Where the course is a faculty level course, unit coordinators are  appointed by the executive dean of faculty or nominee. 
  Unit coordinators are appointed  from among the academic staff of the faculty at or above Associate Lecturer (Step  6 on the salary scale). 
  Unit coordinators serve a  renewable term of up to three years. 
Top 
Related Documents 
MOPP A/4.1 Principal  officers and organisational structure
  MOPP B/4.3 Selection panels
  MOPP B/4.4 Selection and  appointment processes
  MOPP B/5.2  Vice-Chancellor's Performance Fund
  MOPP C/3.1 Courses and  awards 
  MOPP C/4.3 Graduate capabilities
  MOPP C/4.6 Course quality  assurance
  MOPP C/4.7 Evaluation of  courses, units, teaching and student experience
MOPP C/6.2 The First Year  experience
  MOPP D/5.1.3 Coordination  of research training
  MOPP E/4.3 Enrolment  programs 
  MOPP Appendix 1(c) Student  Rules 
  MOPP Appendix 3 Schedule of  Authorities and Delegations 
Top 
Modification History 
Date
Sections
Source
Details
  11.02.11
  All
  Governance Services
  Revised terms of reference due to name change from Office of Teaching Quality to Learning and Teaching Unit
  03.12.07
  All
  Vice-Chancellor
  Revised and re-named    policy (formerly B/3.5 Course, unit and subject area coordinators);    incorporates former policy B/4.7 Appointment of course coordinators (endorsed    by Vice-Chancellor's Advisory Committee 31.10.07) 
24.03.06
B/3.5.6
University Academic Board
Editorial amendment consistent with new policy on unit outlines (C/7.10)
25.08.05
All
Secretariat
Updated duties of Course Coordinator and Unit Coordinator consistent with Schedule
 of Authorities and Delegations (as approved by Council 07.04.04)
12.07.05
All
Secretariat
Renumbered policy to B/3.5 - formerly B/5.1
31.01.01
All
Human Resources Department
Updated
Top 
    Chapter A | Chapter B | Chapter C | Chapter D | Chapter E | Chapter F | Chapter G | Chapter H | Chapter I | Appendices | Protocol for MOPP Policy | Recent Updates
    QUT Home | MOPP Home
    CRICOS No. 00213J
    Privacy | Copyright | Accessibility
    Last modified 09-Feb-2011
    Contact us | Feedback | Disclaimer
