QUT | MOPP | B/3.1 Workforce planning
            QUT&nbsp;Home
          Contact&nbsp;us
          Search
      MOPP Home
      Protocol for MOPP Policy
      Recent Updates
      B/3.1 Workforce planning
Chapters
A - Governance/Organisation
B - Human Resources
C - Learning/Teaching
D - Research/Development
E - Student Administration
F - Information Management
G - Financial Management
H - Physical Facilities
I - International/Community
MOPP Appendices
MOPP Protocol
MOPP Updates
[Print-friendly version]
Contact OfficerCoordinator, Workforce Planning, HR 
Approval Date26/07/2006 
Approval AuthorityCouncil 
Date of Next Review01/09/2009 
3.1.1 Objectives 
3.1.2 University Workforce Plan 
3.1.3 Workforce planning at faculty / division level 
3.1.4 Changes to staffing structure outside of planning process 
3.1.5 Staff profile and vacancies 
Related Documents 
Modification History 
    THIS POLICY IS CURRENTLY UNDER REVIEW -
    CONTACT SENIOR HUMAN RESOURCES OFFICER (WORKFORCE PLANNING), HR FOR FURTHER DETAILS.    
3.1.1 Objectives 
A critical component of strategic planning is the development and anticipation
of the kind of overall workforce best suited to the University's future needs.
While undertaking strategic planning, managers are required to undertake a
thorough workforce planning exercise to plan staffing for the years ahead.
A broad approach to workforce planning involves:
a systematic forward-looking assessment of organisational direction,
    workload and capability requirements,
a forecast of staffing requirements to meet the anticipated workloads,
      and
a linking of staffing policy from recruitment to retirement which
      is designed to achieve the desired workforce profile.
Planning and budget guidelines, released prior to each planning and budget
  round by the Division of Finance and Resource Planning, provide further details
of this process.
This policy addresses the workforce planning process and management requirements
at QUT.
Top 
3.1.2 University Workforce Plan 
A University Workforce Plan is released at the time of the planning and budget
  round to assist senior managers when formulating plans at a faculty / divisional
  level. The University Workforce Plan provides a description of current University
  workforce attributes and trends, attributes of a desired future University
  workforce consistent with University top level plans, strategies to attain
this workforce and a clear set of parameters from which to manage the workforce.
Top 
3.1.3 Workforce planning at faculty / division level 
a)	Responsibility for workforce planning
It is the responsibility of managers to undertake long-term workforce planning
  to ensure that the strategic objectives of the area and the University are
  adequately supported by an appropriate staff structure now and in the future.
  This includes financial planning to ensure that staffing decisions are affordable
  both within the current budget and likely future funding scenarios.
Overall responsibility for managing a faculty / division's workforce and
  staff profile lies with executive deans of faculty / heads of division who
  sign off on all workforce plans and staffing proposals. Executive deans of
  faculty / heads of division approve the creation of new fixed-term and on-going
  positions (academic staff Levels A – C, and professional staff HEW Levels 1 – 10)
  within the parameters of the University Workforce Plan. The creation of a position
  outside of these parameters must be approved by the Vice-Chancellor, including
  approval for the creation of new fixed-term and on-going academic positions
  Levels D and E and all senior staff positions (SSG2 – SSG6).
Authority for the creation and approval of all positions (on-going and fixed-term)
  is set out in  
MOPP
  Appendix 3 Schedule of Authorities and Delegations.
b)	Contents of a Faculty / Division Workforce Plan
A workforce plan outlines the key human resource issues that the faculty /
  division will encounter in the next three years and details objectives and
  strategies to deal with these issues. Information from sources such as environmental
  scanning may assist with this process. Workforce plans should align with Top
  Level plans, the University Workforce Plan and faculty / division strategic
  plans. A workforce plan will report on the following areas:
progress during the previous 12 months against the relevant key
    performance indicators of the top level plans;
the main workforce issues impacting on the organisational area
      and the impact / risk posed by these issues;
broad objectives proposed and the strategies needed to achieve
      objectives;
the performance targets / indicators (qualitative / quantitative)
      to be used to measure performance on objectives; and
proposed recruitment activities and workforce strategies planned
      for the next three years in response to the objectives of the University
    Workforce Plan.
Consideration of equity target groups is expected in the early stages of workforce
  planning. The level of detail and formality of the workforce plan will vary
according to the scale and complexity of an area's workforce.
Advice may be sought from the Human Resources Director or nominee during the
preparation of workforce plans.
For more information on the contents of a workforce plan refer to 
http://www.hrd.qut.edu.au/managers/wfp/.
c)	Staffing proposals and budget development
A staffing proposal for new on-going and fixed-term academic Level D and E
  positions, for senior staff positions (SSG2 - SSG6), or for a position outside
  of the parameters of the University Workforce Plan, should clearly state:
the rationale for the proposed new position;
the proposed level of appointment;
the proposed fraction;
the past record of the position (if any);
demonstrated support for QUT's direction, and the faculty / division's
      strategic and workforce plan; and
the funding source for the position including supporting statement
      on affordability, sustainability and stability of the funding source.
Positions funded from all funding sources are included in a faculty / division's
  staffing profile. All positions must be costed within the overall faculty /
  division staffing budget and be supported by a deployment of funds statement
  detailing affordability, sustainability and stability of the funding source.
  The statement will take into account the salary and on-costs associated with
the staffing profile position(s).
Staffing proposals are submitted to the Division of Finance and Resource Planning
  in conjunction with faculty / division budgets as part of the planning and
  budget process. Staffing proposals are then forwarded to the Vice-Chancellor
  for approval. Each executive dean of faculty / head of division will review
  and sign off their staffing proposal(s) and deployment of funds statement(s)
prior to submission.
Consideration needs to be given to both estimated future income and estimated
  salary increases through enterprise bargaining negotiations. The percentage
  allocated to staffing expenditure will vary within individual faculties and
  divisions, and it is the responsibility of managers to appropriately manage
  the balance between salary and non-salary expenditure in line with relevant
  key performance indicators.
d)	Change management
If a major change exercise coincides with the planning and budget cycle, a workforce
plan will not be required as it will form part of the Change Management Plan
(see 
B/11.1
A Change Management Plan, particularly for a change project involving significant
job redesign, should include a review of all positions and subsequently a detailed
workforce plan.
Top 
3.1.4 Changes to staffing structure outside of planning process 
If approval is sought for a new on-going or fixed-term academic Level D or
  E position, for a senior staff position (SSG2 - SSG6), or for a position outside
  of the parameters of the University Workforce Plan , a request should be initially
  directed to the Human Resources Director. The Human Resources Director then
  forwards requests for professional and senior staff positions to the Vice-Chancellor.
  Requests for academic positions are forwarded to the Vice-Chancellor via the
Deputy Vice-Chancellor (Academic).
Top 
3.1.5 Staff profile and vacancies 
Additions and changes to a faculty
    / division's staff profile will be reflected in the University's human
    resources information system. The staff profile represents a record of all
    full-time and part-time (on-going or fixed-term) staff positions by classification
    level that a faculty or division may maintain within its budget, assuming
    a reasonable vacancy rate, and making adequate allowance for other salary
and non-salary costs.
Vacancies on profile should be considered during workforce planning taking
into account future needs and direction as well as funding availability (see 
B/3.1.3(c)
The Human Resources Department undertakes an annual review of all long term
  vacancies within the University, defined as positions on the current position
  profile that have not been filled for 18 months or more. The Human Resources
  Department will consult with executive deans of faculty / heads of division
to determine if the positions will be required in the short term.
Long term vacant positions will be removed from the current position profile
  if it is determined that there are no plans or requirements for filling these
positions in the short term.
Top 
Related Documents 
MOPP A/2.2 University Planning
Framework
MOPP G/1.1 Financial
  management
MOPP G/4.1 Budget
MOPP B/11.1 Workplace
  change management policy
MOPP Appendix
    3 Schedule of Authorities and Delegations
Top 
Modification History 
Date
Sections
Source
Details
   07.09.09
  B/3.1.3, B/3.1.4
  Human Resources Department
  Minor amendments to reflect changes in the Employee Collective Agreement  (Senior Staff) 2009-2012
26.07.06
All
Council
Revised policy (endorsed by Vice-Chancellor's Advisory Committee 19.07.06)
20.12.04
B/3.1.1, B/3.1.2, B/3.1.3
Registrar's Office
Editorial amendments (consistent with Higher Education Support Act 2003 and associated Guidelines)
31.01.01
All
Human Resources Department
Updated
Top 
    Chapter A | Chapter B | Chapter C | Chapter D | Chapter E | Chapter F | Chapter G | Chapter H | Chapter I | Appendices | Protocol for MOPP Policy | Recent Updates
    QUT Home | MOPP Home
    CRICOS No. 00213J
    Privacy | Copyright | Accessibility
    Last modified 12-May-2010
    Contact us | Feedback | Disclaimer
