QUT | MOPP | B/3.2 Position descriptions
            QUT&nbsp;Home
          Contact&nbsp;us
          Search
      MOPP Home
      Protocol for MOPP Policy
      Recent Updates
      B/3.2 Position descriptions
Chapters
A - Governance/Organisation
B - Human Resources
C - Learning/Teaching
D - Research/Development
E - Student Administration
F - Information Management
G - Financial Management
H - Physical Facilities
I - International/Community
MOPP Appendices
MOPP Protocol
MOPP Updates
[Print-friendly version]
Contact OfficerManager, Policy Planning and Workplace Relations, HR 
Approval Date04/10/2005 
Approval AuthorityVice-Chancellor 
Date of Next Review01/07/2009 
3.2.1 Professional staff positions 
3.2.2 Research only professional staff positions 
3.2.3 Academic staff positions 
3.2.4 Research only academic staff positions 
3.2.5 Sessional academic staff positions 
Modification History 
3.2.1 Professional staff positions 
Professional staff positions are classified within a 10 level classification structure (Higher Education
  Worker Levels 1-10). The classification of a position is determined by the descriptors for each level
which outline the broad categories of responsibilities and skill level for each level.
The classification  descriptions for professional staff positions (excluding research assistants  and senior research assistants) are outlined in the QUT Enterprise  Bargaining Agreement (Professional Staff).
Top 
3.2.2 Research only professional staff positions 
The classification descriptions for research only professional staff positions (research assistant
and senior research assistants) are available from 
HR
website
Top 
3.2.3 Academic staff positions 
Position Classification  Standards for the classification of academic staff positions at QUT are set out  in the QUT Enterprise  Bargaining Agreement (Academic Staff). These standards are generic  statements used to describe the broad categories of responsibilities attached  to academic staff positions at different levels. The Position Classification  Standards provide the basis to differentiate between the various levels of  appointment and define the broad relationships between classifications. The  Standards are not exhaustive of all tasks in academic employment.
The duties and responsibilities of academic staff will be consistent with the appropriate Position
  Classification Standard.
The Position Classification Standards have three parts:
General Standard
This contains a generic statement of the function and rationale of positions at a given level. These
  are stated with regard to the form and level of contribution which an occupant of a position can be
  expected to make to academic leadership, research and scholarship, teaching performance and leadership,
  and professional leadership.
Specific Duties
Examples of specific duties are provided. The lists of duties are illustrative and not a set of mandatory
  requirements to be placed upon someone holding a position at a given level. There are a number of distinctive
  duties between the levels and these are especially pertinent in establishing where a position and its
  incumbent should be classified.
Skill Base
The skill base is a generic statement of the qualification and experience which can be expected of
  a person holding a position at a given level. The skill base is stated as a combination of formal qualifications
  and/or experience according to the relevant discipline area. Selection and other criteria need to be
  sensitive to the discipline area of candidates.
Top 
3.2.4 Research only academic staff positions 
Research only academic staff positions are defined by the following titles:
Principal Research Fellow
Senior Research Fellow
Research Fellow
Research Officer
Senior Research Officer
Postdoctoral Fellow
Senior Research Associate
Research Associate
The Position Classification  Standards for the classification of research only academic staff positions are  set out in the QUT  Enterprise Bargaining Agreement (Academic Staff).
Position Classification Standards for research only academic positions (L evels A to E) are generic
  statements used to describe the broad categories of responsibilities which may be required of staff
  at each level. The research-only Position Classification Standards provide the basis to differentiate
  between the various classifications and define the broad relationships between classifications.
The levels are differentiated by level of complexity, degree of autonomy, leadership requirements
  of the position and level of achievement of the research academic. The responsibilities of research-only
  staff may vary according to the specific requirements of the institution to meet its objectives, to
  different discipline requirements and/or to individual staff development.
A research only academic appointed to a particular level may be assigned, and may be expected to undertake,
  responsibilities and functions of any level up to and including the level to which the academic is
  appointed or promoted. In addition, a research only academic may choose to undertake elements of the
  work of a higher level without receiving additional remuneration in order to gain experience and expertise
  consistent with the requirements of the University's promotion processes. If a research only academic
  chooses to undertake such work it shall be by prior agreement between the staff member and their supervisor.
The skill base outlined for each level is a generic statement of the qualification and experience
  which can be expected of a person holding a position at a given level. The skill base is stated as
  a combination of formal qualifications and/or experience according to the relevant discipline area.
Examples of the specific duties are provided. The lists of duties are illustrative and not a set of
  mandatory requirements to be placed upon someone holding a position at a given level. There are a number
  of distinctive duties between the levels and these are especially pertinent in establishing where a
position and its incumbent should be classified.
The duties and responsibilities of research only academic staff will be consistent with the appropriate
  research Position Classification Standard.
Top 
3.2.5 Sessional academic staff positions 
The definitions for sessional academic position classifications are:
Sessional lecturing
Sessional tutoring
Music accompanying
Undergraduate clinical nurse education
Sessional marking
Other required academic activities.
The definitions of each of  these position classifications are contained in the QUT Enterprise Bargaining  Agreement (Academic Staff).
Top 
Modification History 
Date
Sections
Source
Details
04.10.05
All
Vice-Chancellor
New policy consistent with current industrial agreements
Top 
    Chapter A | Chapter B | Chapter C | Chapter D | Chapter E | Chapter F | Chapter G | Chapter H | Chapter I | Appendices | Protocol for MOPP Policy | Recent Updates
    QUT Home | MOPP Home
    CRICOS No. 00213J
    Privacy | Copyright | Accessibility
    Last modified 12-May-2010
    Contact us | Feedback | Disclaimer
