QUT | MOPP | B/3.6 Adjunct professors
            QUT&nbsp;Home
          Contact&nbsp;us
          Search
      MOPP Home
      Protocol for MOPP Policy
      Recent Updates
      B/3.6 Adjunct professors
Chapters
A - Governance/Organisation
B - Human Resources
C - Learning/Teaching
D - Research/Development
E - Student Administration
F - Information Management
G - Financial Management
H - Physical Facilities
I - International/Community
MOPP Appendices
MOPP Protocol
MOPP Updates
[Print-friendly version]
Contact OfficerCoordinator, HR Advisory Services 
Approval Date01/03/2006 
Approval AuthorityVice-Chancellor 
Date of Next Review01/12/2009 
3.6.1 Invitation of an adjunct professor 
3.6.2 Reporting 
3.6.3 Indemnity and insurance 
Related Documents 
Modification History 
3.6.1 Invitation of an adjunct professor 
The invitation of an adjunct professor is designed to enrich QUT's educational program by involving
  distinguished and talented professionals and academics in teaching and research activities. A proforma
  for the nomination of adjunct professors is available from the 
Human
  Resources Department website
. The number of adjunct professors invited will be determined
within the context of the annual planning process.
An adjunct professor is involved in activities such as:
undergraduate and postgraduate teaching;
participation in research programs of a school, faculty or research centre;
participation in seminars with advanced students and staff;
discussion with school staff on course, subject area, and unit structure, content and development;
participation in workshops, seminars, University lectures, continuing education programs or conferences
    (through the Division of Research and Commercialisation) for the general public or specific outside
    group..
Adjunct professors are expected to have a marked influence on the activities of the faculty in which
  they serve. With this in mind, the period of appointment and type of attendance are flexible. Full-time
  attendance for at least half a semester is suggested. Invitations for adjunct professors may be for
  a period of up to three years. An application for renewal of invitation can be made by an executive
  dean of faculty to the Deputy-Vice Chancellor (Academic). In the absence of such an application, the
  invitation lapses.
For the period of invitation, adjunct professors may be granted the following benefits and privileges:
remuneration at professorial level (taxable);
an appropriate return airfare for the adjunct professor;
a living away from home allowance (current rates and methods of payment can be found on the 
Division
        of Finance and Resource Planning
website);
full use of the facilities of a school including office space, computer and telephone;
full use of QUT facilities including libraries and computing facilities;
workers' compensation insurance protection if paid remuneration by QUT.
All adjunct professors issued invitations by QUT should be aware of the University's Intellectual
  Property Policy (see 
D/3.1
which is a condition of invitation.
An adjunct professor invitation will be approved by the Deputy Vice-Chancellor (Academic) on
  recommendation from the executive dean of faculty / head of division.
In appropriate circumstances, the Deputy Vice-Chancellor (Academic) may also approve invitation at
  the level of adjunct associate professor.
For all adjunct professor invitations, advice should be obtained from the Human Resources Department
  regarding visa requirements for overseas appointees. Advice on taxation requirements can be obtained
  from the Department of Corporate Finance. Letters of invitation will be issued by the Human Resources
  Department.
Top
3.6.2 Reporting 
The Deputy Vice-Chancellor (Academic) will report annually to the Vice-Chancellor on any invitations
made. The Human Resources Director will monitor invitations and report to the Vice-Chancellor as appropriate.
Top 
3.6.3 Indemnity and insurance 
See 
A/7.1
for policy
  on indemnity provided to persons who work for QUT without payment, and section 
B/7.6
for
  insurance for visitors. Persons invited as adjunct professors and paid remuneration are covered by
workers' compensation insurance.
Top 
Related Documents 
Adjunct Professor guidelines
MOPP Appendix 3 – Schedule of Authorities and Delegations
Top 
Modification History 
Date
Sections
Source
Details
01.03.06
All
Council
Revised delegations relating to invitation of adjunct professors
23.08.05
B/3.6.1
Vice-Chancellor
Revised policy (authority to appoint adjunct professors and adjunct associate
        professors delegated to Deputy Vice-Chancellor (Academic); policy renumbered to B/3.6 – formerly
        B/5.3.2)
18.05.01
B/3.6.1
Vice-Chancellor
Revised to include appointment of adjunct associate professors (endorsed by Vice-Chancellor's
        Advisory Committee 17.5.01)
31.01.01
All
Human Resources Department
Updated
28.03.01
All
Council
Delegation for approval of appointments modified
Top 
    Chapter A | Chapter B | Chapter C | Chapter D | Chapter E | Chapter F | Chapter G | Chapter H | Chapter I | Appendices | Protocol for MOPP Policy | Recent Updates
    QUT Home | MOPP Home
    CRICOS No. 00213J
    Privacy | Copyright | Accessibility
    Last modified 12-May-2010
    Contact us | Feedback | Disclaimer
