QUT | MOPP | B/4.2 Duty statements and selection criteria
            QUT&nbsp;Home
          Contact&nbsp;us
          Search
      MOPP Home
      Protocol for MOPP Policy
      Recent Updates
      B/4.2 Duty statements and selection criteria
Chapters
A - Governance/Organisation
B - Human Resources
C - Learning/Teaching
D - Research/Development
E - Student Administration
F - Information Management
G - Financial Management
H - Physical Facilities
I - International/Community
MOPP Appendices
MOPP Protocol
MOPP Updates
[Print-friendly version]
Contact OfficerCoordinator, HR Advisory Services 
Approval Date21/12/2010 
Approval AuthorityVice-Chancellor 
Date of Next Review01/03/2014 
4.2.1 Principles 
4.2.2 Duty statement 
4.2.3 Selection criteria 
4.2.4 Selection criteria for professional staff 
4.2.5 Selection criteria for academic staff 
4.2.6 Selection criteria for senior staff 
Related Documents 
Modification History 
This section describes QUT's approach to the development of duty statements 
  and selection criteria to attract quality applicants and to ensure appointment 
  of the most appropriate staff. The policy applies to the selection of senior 
  (SSG2 to SSG6), academic and professional  staff.
Top 
4.2.1 Principles 
(a) A duty statement and selection criteria shall be developed for all positions including fixed-term
positions and positions filled through appointment by invitation.
(b) The duty statement and selection criteria shall reflect the needs of the organisational area consistent
  with the area's workforce plan.
(c) The duty statement and selection criteria shall appropriately reflect the classification of the
  position as assessed by Human Resources.
(d) The duty statement and selection criteria shall  indicate that criminal history checks will be conducted for positions where  criminal history is relevant to the inherent requirements of the position.
(e) Selection to a position shall be based on merit as assessed against the position's selection
  criteria and shall be consistent with equal employment opportunity principles. Selection on the basis
  of merit means that the grounds for decisions on the selection and appointment of staff must directly
  relate to the relationship between the inherent requirements of the position and the person's skills,
  knowledge, qualifications and experience.
Selection on the basis of merit prevents decisions being made on discriminatory grounds such as age,
  gender, race or nationality, marital status, sexual preference, religious or political beliefs or activities,
  trade union activity, disability, pregnancy or status as a parent or carer.
Top 
4.2.2 Duty statement 
Once a decision is made to fill a position, selection documentation must be developed including a
  duty statement. The duty statement is normally developed by the supervisor of the position in consultation
with appropriate staff and members of the selection panel.
In developing a duty statement for a vacant position a review of the current position description
  will ensure that changes in position requirements are identified and clearly incorporated into the
  new duty statement.
The duty statement describes the job and assists applicants in preparing their application. It is a
  clear and realistic description of the primary duties, functions, responsibilities, interactions and
  experience required of a position. The duty statement should describe
the position, not the person in it
organisational relationships
what the position holder will do listing separately each major task of the position
the direction, supervision and interaction required by the functions of the position
the work environment.
In developing duty statements for academic and professional staff the duties and level of responsibility
  specified should be consistent with the position classification standards for the level of position.
  These are available as follows
for 
academic
        staff
for 
professional staff
for 
research
        only academic staff
for 
research
        only professional staff
As well as being an essential element of the recruitment and selection process, the duty statement
  performs an important function in the employment relationship. It assists in orienting new staff, in
  prioritising work objectives, in guiding classification evaluations and in informing discussions on
  performance planning and review and workload allocation.
Further guidance is available from the relevant 
Human
Resources Advisor.
Top 
4.2.3 Selection criteria 
Once the duties of a position have been identified and the duty statement written it is necessary
  to determine the knowledge, skills, experience and education or training required of the person being
  sought for the position. These are the selection criteria for the position and are the standards against
which applicants will be assessed.
Selection criteria are normally developed by the supervisor of the position. Selection criteria must
  be developed directly in relation to the duty statement for a position and must be clearly documented.
The chair of the selection panel determines whether applicants are required to address the selection
  criteria in applications for a position. For trade and base technical positions, selection documentation
  should state that there is no need to address the selection criteria and that a resume is sufficient.
Selection criteria assist the recruitment and selection process by
assisting in attracting suitable applicants
providing the standards against which all applications can be assessed
providing the means against which applicants can be meritoriously distinguished
providing the basis for interview questions.
The more accurate the selection criteria the more likely the best applicant will be selected for the
  position. Selection criteria should
be written in simple and clear language
be specific and not overlap
be based on the real requirements of the position
not be excessive in number
not discriminate unlawfully either directly or indirectly against applicants
not favour either internal or external applicants
be consistent with the classification standards of the position
include any health and safety responsibilities of the position.
Selection criteria must be defined as either essential or desirable. Essential criteria are those
  that the candidate must have to satisfactorily perform the duties of the position. Desirable criteria
  are those which enhance a candidate's capacity to perform the position but are not critical to a candidate
  obtaining the position. It is not necessary to provide desirable criteria where the essential criteria
  are seen as sufficient in defining the requirements of the position.
Weightings
A selection panel may weight the selection criteria for a position to reflect each criterion's level
of importance to the satisfactory performance of the position. Where a panel weights the criteria,
the nominated weightings must be provided to potential applicants for the position. A selection panel's
recommendation for appointment is determined on the essential criteria for the position as specified
in the position description. Where it is necessary to further differentiate between applicants, reference
is made to both essential and desirable criteria where such criteria are provided. Whilst applicants
may not be required to address the selection criteria, the selection panel must assess all applicants
against the criteria.
Selection criteria must relate directly to the tasks and functions required of the position and must
  not be tailored to fit a particular applicant. As well as relating to the tasks of the position, selection
  criteria both essential and desirable should include those behavioural requirements or personal attributes
  required to successfully perform the position. These may include attributes such as ability to work
  independently, to operate effectively as a team member, communication and interpersonal skills, and
  negotiation skills.
Equal employment opportunity
Various State and Commonwealth Equal Employment Opportunity Acts impose obligations on all employers
  to ensure employees enjoy working conditions free of unlawful discrimination. Demonstrated knowledge
  of equal opportunity should be included as an essential selection criterion for all supervisory positions.
Health and safety responsibilities
The 
Workplace Health and Safety Act 1995 (Qld)
imposes a statutory obligation on all
  employers to ensure the health and safety of employees and others at the workplace. Managers have a
  responsibility to discharge this obligation within the limits of their authority.
Demonstrated knowledge of workplace health and safety principles at an appropriate level should
  be included as an essential selection criterion for all supervisory positions and for positions where
  knowledge and application of such principles, standards, codes or practices is required.
It is also important to consider the physical aspects of duties and include information and selection
  criteria where appropriate. This may include: where standing for long periods is necessary, data
  entry or word processing for a significant portion of the day, or lifting heavy objects.
Changes to selection criteria
Positions are normally re-advertised if the selection criteria change during the recruitment process.
  If the criteria are changed and it is proposed that the position not be re-advertised, the head of
  the organisational unit must make a case to the Human Resources Director as to why the normal process
  should be set aside. When approval is given for change to selection criteria without re-advertisement,
  all applicants are advised of the change as soon as possible. In no case are selection criteria changed
  after the applications have been forwarded to the organisational unit for shortlisting.
Top 
4.2.4 Selection criteria for professional staff 
Professional staff positions comprise all administrative, professional and technical,
non-academic research and other support staff positions.
Professional staff positions are classified within a ten level classification structure, Higher
  Education Worker Level 1 to 10. Selection criteria for a position must be consistent with the classification
    descriptors for that position as outlined in the 
QUT
    Enterprise Agreement (Professional Staff). Selection criteria for research
    only professional staff must be consistent with the 
Classification
Descriptors for Research Only Professional Staff.
Appointees to professional staff positions must demonstrate an ability to undertake the duties prescribed
  for the position and must possess the necessary skills required for the position.
Further guidance is
  available from the relevant 
Human
Resources Advisor.
Potential to meet selection criteria
An applicant for appointment who does not meet one or more of the selection criteria, but who is considered
  by the selection panel to have the potential to do so within the period of probation, or for fixed-term
  appointments within the term of appointment, may be appointed with the panel recommending participation
  in staff development during the probation period, or for fixed-term during the term of appointment.
  In such cases the letter of offer of appointment shall state specific matters to which the professional
  development is to be directed.
Top 
4.2.5 Selection criteria for academic staff 
Academic teaching and research positions are classified at the levels of professor, associate professor,
  senior lecturer, lecturer and associate lecturer. Research only academic staff are classified at the
  levels of Senior Principal Research Fellow, Principal Research Fellow, Senior Research Fellow, Research
  Fellow, Senior Research Officer, Research Officer, Postdoctoral Fellow, Senior Research Associate and
  Research Associate.
Selection criteria for a position must be consistent with the Position Classification Standard for
  the level of appointment as outlined in the 
QUT
Enterprise Agreement (Academic Staff).
Selection criteria for research only academic staff must be consistent with the 
Classification
Descriptors for Research Only Academic Staff.
Appointees to academic positions must demonstrate an ability to undertake the duties prescribed for
  the position and must possess the necessary skills required for the position.
Guidelines for
  Academic Selection Criteria
provide academic areas with generic selection criteria for
  each level of appointment. These are teaching and learning, research and scholarship, and academic
  and professional leadership. These generic criteria provide a platform for the development of selection
  criteria for individual positions. In drafting selection criteria for a position, areas should build
  upon the generic criteria to describe the actual requirements of the position and of the discipline
  area in which the position is located. In adding to or tailoring the generic criteria to better describe
  a position's requirements, areas must ensure selection criteria remain consistent with the Position
  Classification Standards for academic positions.
Qualifications or equivalent accreditation or standing
Selection criteria for academic positions must include the relevant requirement in relation to qualifications
  or equivalent accreditation or standing for the level of appointment.
In determining equivalent accreditation or standing, regard shall be given to teaching experience,
    experience in research and scholarship, experience outside tertiary education, creative achievement,
    professional contributions and/or to technical achievement.
The requirement of an applicant for each level of appointment is outlined below.
Professor / Associate Professor / Senior Lecturer
: completion of a doctoral qualification
    in the relevant discipline area or equivalent accreditation or standing. 
Equivalent standing can be demonstrated by comparison of attainment in areas relevant to academic employment
  with the standard attained in a doctoral degree in the relevant discipline area.
Lecturer
: completion of a doctoral or masters qualification in the relevant discipline area
    or equivalent accreditation or standing. 
Equivalent standing can be demonstrated by comparison of attainment in areas relevant to academic employment
  with the standard attained in a doctoral degree or masters in the relevant discipline area.
Associate Lecturer
: completion of four years tertiary study in the relevant discipline, for
    example an honours degree, an extended professional degree or a three year degree with an associated
    postgraduate diploma.
In considering the suitability of applicants the selection panel shall have regard both to the level
  of qualifications and/or experience relevant for the appropriate discipline area and equivalent forms
  of accreditation or standing.
Further guidance is available from  the relevant 
Human
Resources Advisor.
Potential to meet selection criteria
An applicant for appointment at the level of senior lecturer, lecturer or associate lecturer who does
  not meet one or more of the selection criteria, but who is considered by the selection panel to have
  the potential to do so within the period of probation, or for fixed-term appointments within the term
  of appointment, may be appointed with the panel recommending participation in staff development during
  the probation period, or for fixed-term during the term of appointment. In such cases the letter of
  offer of appointment shall state specific matters to which the professional development is to be directed.
Top 
4.2.6 Selection criteria for senior staff 
Senior staff positions comprise those positions appointed within the Senior Staff Group levels 2 to
  6. Selection criteria for these positions are developed directly in relation to the duty statements
for a position.
Appointees to senior staff positions must demonstrate an ability to undertake the duties prescribed
    for the position and must possess the necessary skills required for the position. Information on
    the broad responsibilities of some senior staff positions is outlined in 
A/3.3.
Guidance in developing selection criteria for senior staff positions is available from  the relevant 
Senior Human
Resources Advisor.
Top 
Related Documents 
MOPP A/
2.
2 University planning framework
MOPP B/3.2 Position descriptions
Strategic Planning Package, Finance and Resource Planning website
Top 
Modification History 
Date
Sections
Source
Details
   21.12.10
  All
  Human Resources Department
  Periodic review - Minor editorial changes only
   07.09.09
  Introduction, B/4.2.6
  Human Resources Department
  Minor amendments to reflect changes in the Employee Collective Agreement  (Senior Staff) 2009-2012
   13.08.09
   B/4.2.1
   Vice-Chancellor
  Revised policy to include criminal history check
01.03.06
All
Council
Revised policy
03.09.03
All
Council
Revised policy
04.04.01
B/4.2.9
Human Resources Department
New subsection added
28.03.01
All
Council
Approved updated policy
Top 
    Chapter A | Chapter B | Chapter C | Chapter D | Chapter E | Chapter F | Chapter G | Chapter H | Chapter I | Appendices | Protocol for MOPP Policy | Recent Updates
    QUT Home | MOPP Home
    CRICOS No. 00213J
    Privacy | Copyright | Accessibility
    Last modified 16-Feb-2011
    Contact us | Feedback | Disclaimer
