QUT | MOPP | B/4.1 Recruitment and advertising
            QUT&nbsp;Home
          Contact&nbsp;us
          Search
      MOPP Home
      Protocol for MOPP Policy
      Recent Updates
      B/4.1 Recruitment and advertising
Chapters
A - Governance/Organisation
B - Human Resources
C - Learning/Teaching
D - Research/Development
E - Student Administration
F - Information Management
G - Financial Management
H - Physical Facilities
I - International/Community
MOPP Appendices
MOPP Protocol
MOPP Updates
[Print-friendly version]
Contact OfficerCoordinator, HR Advisory Services 
Approval Date21/12/2010 
Approval AuthorityVice-Chancellor 
Date of Next Review01/03/2014 
4.1.1 Initiation of recruitment processes and preparation of position documentation 
4.1.2 Diversity in recruitment 
4.1.3 Advertisement 
4.1.4 Advertisement for reclassified professional staff positions 
4.1.5 Receipt of applications 
4.1.6 Recruitment pool for short-term positions 
4.1.7 Variation to Policy 
Related Documents 
Modification History 
4.1.1 Initiation of recruitment processes and preparation of position documentation 
The decision to recruit staff to an organisational area must be consistent with the approved staffing
  structure of the area. Prior to a decision to advertise and fill a position the organisational area
  should review the need for the position and its requirements. The area's workforce plan will guide
  this assessment. Selection panels are constituted for the filling of all vacant positions at QUT (except
  as indicated in B/4.1.3 and B/4.1.6), and the selection panel should be formed and involved in recruitment
  processes from the initial stages. Policies 
B/4.3
and 
B/4.4
describe
in detail selection panel memberships and processes.
Position documentation is, where practicable, canvassed with internal members of the selection panel.
Position documentation should be designed to attract suitably qualified candidates and assist them
  in preparing their application. It should be drafted in accordance with University policy 
B/4.2
) and guidelines, and should include the following
position title
position purpose
background information to the position
organisational relationships
duty statement
essential (minimum) criteria for selection
desirable criteria for selection (if applicable)
advertisement.
Detailed explanation of the development of the duty statement and selection criteria for a position
  is contained in section 
B/4.2.
The recruitment process will include an application, an interview, and one other relevant selection
  method such as referee reports or selection test. The  documentation should indicate
  whether elective selection methods, such as psycho-metric tests or presentation, will be used in combination
with the application and interview (see 
B/4.4.3
The Human Resources Director or nominee approves  position documentation as being in compliance
  with University policy and procedures before authorising the initiation of recruitment processes and
  advertising.
Top 
4.1.2 Diversity in recruitment 
The University uses its best efforts to ensure that all applicant pools reflect gender balance and
  support staff diversity at QUT.
Where appropriate, action may be taken to advertise and/or publicise positions to potential applicants
  from equity groups which are under-represented in the staff of the University generally, or in the
  occupational group or organisational unit from which the positions come. This includes for example,
  Indigenous Australians, youth and people with disability.
Top 
4.1.3 Advertisement 
Positions are advertised so that potential candidates who are eligible for appointment have a reasonable
opportunity to be aware of, and apply for, the positions.
Academic positions may be advertised across levels in order to enhance the applicant pool. Organisational
  areas must ensure that the position profile includes a vacant position at the higher classification
  level prior to advertising a position across levels.
'Short-term' appointments are defined as appointments of twelve months or less duration, and for research
  only positions 24 months or less. 'Long-term' appointments are defined as appointments of more than
  twelve months, and for research only positions of more than 24 months. Different advertising requirements
  apply depending on whether the position is defined as a short-term or long-term appointment and the level
  of the position.
All long-term appointments are advertised both internally and externally except where
professional staff positions have been reclassified (see B/4.1.4)
positions are below Higher       Education Worker Level 8 and offer promotional opportunities for       sufficient numbers of internal applicants to constitute a viable pool       (minimum of three) for shortlisting. In this case the position may first       be advertised internally for a minimum two-week period, and if no internal       applicant proves suitable via normal selection procedures, the position       will then be advertised externally. Consistent with section B/4.1.2 above,       and with the University's Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Employment       and Career Development Strategy, positions below HEW Level 8 may also be       publicised to potential Indigenous Australian applicants. Positions at and       above HEW Level 8 must be advertised externally unless internal       advertisement only is approved by the officer delegated to approve the       appointment (see Appendix 3)
fixed term appointments are being renewed. Renewal of fixed term appointments must be in accordance
    with the following
for academic staff: 
QUT
          Enterprise Agreement (Academic Staff),
clauses 27.2 (Fixed term appointment)
          and 42.3.1 (Notice of renewal or non-renewal)
for professional staff: 
QUT
          Enterprise Agreement (Professional Staff), clauses 38.2 (Fixed term
          appointment) and 52.4 (a) (Notice of renewal or non-renewal)
for senior staff: 
QUT Employee Collective Agreement (Senior Staff) 2009-2012, clause 16.2 (Fixed term appointment).
All advertisements are drafted in accordance with University guidelines and normally
  have a minimum closing period of 10 working days for the receipt of  applications unless the authorising officer approves a shorter closing period
where the position requires special knowledge and understanding of a particular group, specify
  that persons from that group are encouraged to apply
carry the web address of the Human Resources Department, from which applicants can obtain a duty
    statement, selection criteria, information on the availability of special access provisions, information
  on the organisational unit, and other relevant information
outline the salary range or wage level of the position and the duration of the appointment.
Information on advertising positions including formatting and word limit requirements is available
on the Human Resources website.
Recruitment pools for short-term appointments are obtained in accordance with the provisions of B/4.1.6.
In the case of a long-term appointment where circumstances necessitate urgent placement, an appointment
  may be made without advertisement for up to twelve months only, until normal procedures for advertisement
  and selection can take place. Appointment is made with the approval of the Human Resources Director
  or nominee.
Top 
4.1.4 Advertisement for reclassified professional staff positions 
In the case of reclassification based on incremental growth of responsibility with satisfactory performance
  by the incumbent, or on redesign which has resulted in minor changes to a job, the incumbent is normally
appointed to the new position without advertisement (see section 
B/3.4
for
further details).
In the case of reclassification based on restructuring which has  resulted in major changes to a job, the job is advertised internally and  externally. Such  reclassification occurs where, because of organisational restructuring or new  priorities, a job changes to a major degree over a very short time period. New  and significant responsibilities are required of the position and a range of  different or more expert skills are required by the incumbent. Because of the  short time period involved, the incumbent has not undertaken or demonstrated to  any extent the new duties required at the new levels of responsibility  (although he or she may have handled elements of some or all of the new duties  competently at a lower level). Change in classification and enhancement in  salary range in these cases would be major.
Top 
4.1.5 Receipt of applications 
Late applications are not normally accepted. However, the Panel Chair may accept applications received
  after the closing date, on the basis that there is a good reason for the late submission and
the application is of good quality.
Top 
4.1.6 Recruitment pool for short-term positions 
Organisational units who employ numbers of staff of on short-term appointments (casual or fixed-term)
  may develop a pool of persons interested in short-term appointment. The pool might include
persons already listed with the organisational unit for short-term appointment, including postgraduate
    students
persons applying for short-term appointment eg via periodic advertising rounds
persons identified by the organisational unit for short-term appointment eg as a result of enquires
    by staff within the relevant professional community
agency staff from QUT's preferred suppliers
persons already listed with the University's Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Employment
    and Career Development Strategy.
In the case of short-term academic appointments, heads of organisational units must satisfy the authorising
  officer that the recommended appointee has been selected from the pool on merit on the basis of the
  following selection criteria
evidence of teaching ability / experience
academic / professional qualifications
relevant professional experience.
research ability / experience for research only staff.
In the case of short-term professional staff appointments, heads of organisational units must satisfy
  the authorising officer that the recommended appointee has been selected from the pool on merit on
  the basis of the following selection criteria (appropriate to the classification level)
evidence of required abilities / knowledge / skills
relevant qualifications
relevant experience.
In cases where short-term appointments (either academic or professional) cannot reasonably be filled
  from a pool as outlined above, or where organisational units normally employ on a one-off basis only,
  the head must satisfy the authorising officer that
a genuine effort has been made to develop a pool of applicants and to select the best applicant
    from the pool, in line with the procedures of this policy
the circumstances preclude the implementation of the above provision, in which case the authorising
    officer may authorise the employment of any person suitable for the work to be performed.
Top 
4.1.7 Variation to Policy 
In exceptional circumstances, with the concurrence of the Human  Resources Director, or nominee, the relevant authorising officer may approve a  variation to this policy and procedures. Any such variation will be documented  and held in the Human Resources Department with other information on the  position.
Top 
Related Documents 
MOPP B/4.2 Duty statements and selection criteria.
MOPP B/4.5 Appointment by invitation
Human Resources  website
Top 
Modification History 
Date
Sections
Source
Details
   21.12.10
  All
   Human Resources Department
  Periodic review - Minor editorial changes only
   09.06.09
  B/4.1.3
   Vice-Chancellor
  Revised policy relating to  advertisement of  professional staff positions
   24.03.09
  B/4.1.3
   Vice-Chancellor
  Revised policy relating to internal advertisement of  professional staff positions
01.03.06
All
Council
Revised policy
03.09.03
All
Council
Revised in accordance with new policy on duty statements and selection criteria
        (B/4.2)
03.01.02
B/4.1.3
Vice-Chancellor
Revised advertising policy to facilitate QUT's Indigenous Employment Strategy
28.03.01
All
Council
Approved amendments
Top 
    Chapter A | Chapter B | Chapter C | Chapter D | Chapter E | Chapter F | Chapter G | Chapter H | Chapter I | Appendices | Protocol for MOPP Policy | Recent Updates
    QUT Home | MOPP Home
    CRICOS No. 00213J
    Privacy | Copyright | Accessibility
    Last modified 17-Feb-2011
    Contact us | Feedback | Disclaimer
