QUT | MOPP | B/4.10 Conversion from casual to non-casual employment - professional staff
            QUT&nbsp;Home
          Contact&nbsp;us
          Search
      MOPP Home
      Protocol for MOPP Policy
      Recent Updates
      B/4.10 Conversion from casual to non-casual employment - professional staff
Chapters
A - Governance/Organisation
B - Human Resources
C - Learning/Teaching
D - Research/Development
E - Student Administration
F - Information Management
G - Financial Management
H - Physical Facilities
I - International/Community
MOPP Appendices
MOPP Protocol
MOPP Updates
[Print-friendly version]
Contact OfficerPrincipal HR Advisor (Policy and Workplace Relations) 
Approval Date21/12/2010 
Approval AuthorityVice-Chancellor 
Date of Next Review01/03/2014 
4.10.1 Application 
4.10.2 Eligibility 
4.10.3 Application for conversion 
4.10.4 Offer of conversion 
4.10.5 Information about conversion 
4.10.6 Approval authority 
Related Documents 
Modification History 
4.10.1 Application 
This policy applies to eligible casual professional staff.
Provisions relating to casual employment are detailed in the 
QUT
Enterprise Agreement (Professional Staff)
. This policy must be read in conjunction with the Agreement.
Top 
4.10.2 Eligibility 
A professional staff member employed on a casual basis may apply for conversion to ongoing or fixed-term
employment (including semester-based and part-time employment).
To be eligible to apply for conversion, a casual staff member must be employed on a regular and systematic
  basis in the same or a similar and identically classified position in the same department (or equivalent),
  either
over the immediately preceding period of twelve months and in those immediately preceding
      twelve months the average weekly hours worked equalled at least 50% of the ordinary weekly hours
    that would have been worked by an equivalent full-time employee or
over the immediately preceding period of at least 24 months.
Occasional and short-term work performed by the staff member in another classification, position or
  department shall not affect the staff member's eligibility for conversion.
Top 
4.10.3 Application for conversion 
An eligible casual staff member may apply in writing to the Human Resources Director through their
supervisor for conversion to non-casual employment.
An application for conversion shall not be unreasonably refused. However, an application may be refused
  on reasonable grounds. Reasonable grounds include, but are not limited to, the following
(a) the staff member is a student, or has recently been a student, other than where her/his status
  as a student is irrelevant to her/his engagement and the work required
(b) the staff member is a genuine retiree
(c) the staff member is performing work which will either cease to be required or will be performed
  by a non-casual staff member within 26 weeks (from the date of application)
(d) the staff member has a primary occupation with the University or elsewhere, either as an employee
  or as a self-employed person
(e) the staff member does not meet the essential requirements of the position
(f) the work is ad hoc, intermittent, unpredictable or involves hours that are irregular.
An application for conversion will be determined either by offering conversion to non-casual employment
  or by rejecting the application. If the application is rejected written reasons must be provided. If
  the application is accepted, the employee will be offered a non-casual position.
A staff member whose application for conversion is rejected shall not be entitled to apply again within
  twelve months except where that rejection is solely based upon the ground that
"the staff member is performing work which will either cease to be required or will be performed
  by a non-casual staff member, within 26 weeks (from the date of application)"
that ground ceased to apply.
Top 
4.10.4 Offer of conversion 
Conversion may be to either an ongoing appointment or to a fixed-term appointment consistent with
  subclauses 38.1 and 38.2 of the 
QUT
  Enterprise Agreement (Professional Staff)
The offer of conversion shall indicate the hours and pattern of work which, subject to due consideration
  of the University's operational requirements and the desirability of offering the staff member work
  which is as regular and continuous as is reasonably practicable, shall be consistent with the staff
  member's casual engagement.
Conversion may be, but is not required to be, semester-based or part-time employment. Conversion of
  a casual staff member to semester-based or part-time employment may occur where by custom and practice
  the work has been performed by casual staff members on such a basis, or otherwise by agreement.
The offer of non-casual employment may include a probationary period.
Top 
4.10.5 Information about conversion 
Upon appointment, a casual staff member will be advised that, after serving qualifying periods, casual
  staff members may have a right to apply for conversion, and a copy of the conversion provisions will
be made available.
Reasonable steps will be taken from time to time to inform casual staff members of the conversion
  provisions.
Top 
4.10.6 Approval authority 
The Human Resources Director has the authority to approve an application for  conversion and the offer of non-casual employment, where there is no  requirement for the creation of an additional ongoing position. Where  conversion of a casual staff member requires the creation of an additional  ongoing position, approval of the new position must be sought from the relevant  executive dean of faculty / head of division prior to an offer of non-casual  employment.
Top 
Related Documents 
QUT Enterprise Agreement (Professional
Staff)
MOPP Appendix 3  Schedule of Authorities and Delegations
Human Resources website
Top 
Modification History 
Date
Sections
Source
Details
   21.12.10
   All
   Human Resources Department
   Periodic review - Minor editorial changes only
  25.02.10
  All
  Principal  HR Advisor (Policy and Workplace Relations)
  Periodic  review - minor  editorial changes only
  12.07.07
  B/4.10.6
  Human Resources Department
  Updated policy consistent with &nbsp;Schedule of Authorities and Delegations (approved  by Acting Vice-Chancellor &nbsp;31.08.06)
09.03.06
B/4.10.6
Acting Vice-Chancellor
Revised policy to clarify approval authority
17.11.05
All
Vice-Chancellor
New policy
Top 
    Chapter A | Chapter B | Chapter C | Chapter D | Chapter E | Chapter F | Chapter G | Chapter H | Chapter I | Appendices | Protocol for MOPP Policy | Recent Updates
    QUT Home | MOPP Home
    CRICOS No. 00213J
    Privacy | Copyright | Accessibility
    Last modified 17-Feb-2011
    Contact us | Feedback | Disclaimer
