QUT | MOPP | B/4.4 Selection and appointment processes
            QUT&nbsp;Home
          Contact&nbsp;us
          Search
      MOPP Home
      Protocol for MOPP Policy
      Recent Updates
      B/4.4 Selection and appointment processes
Chapters
A - Governance/Organisation
B - Human Resources
C - Learning/Teaching
D - Research/Development
E - Student Administration
F - Information Management
G - Financial Management
H - Physical Facilities
I - International/Community
MOPP Appendices
MOPP Protocol
MOPP Updates
[Print-friendly version]
Contact OfficerCoordinator, HR Advisory Services 
Approval Date18/04/2009 
Approval AuthorityVice-Chancellor 
Date of Next Review30/04/2012 
4.4.1 Shortlisting of applicants 
4.4.2 Advice to shortlisted candidates 
4.4.3 Selection methods 
4.4.4 Pre-interview presentation 
4.4.5 Recommendation for appointment 
4.4.6 Approval of appointment 
4.4.7 Post-appointment process 
4.4.8 Notification and feedback 
4.4.9 Selection records 
4.4.10 Variation to Policy 
4.4.11 Monitoring of selection process 
Related Documents 
Modification History 
It is important in selecting applicants for appointment that due process is followed. This section
describes the procedures which  must be adhered to in undertaking selection and appointment processes.
Top 
4.4.1 Shortlisting of applicants 
Shortlisting will be determined by the chair of the selection panel in consultation with the panel
  as appropriate. Candidates selected for shortlisting should be appointable against the essential selection
criteria.
The shortlist is determined by assessment of applications against essential criteria for the position.
  Where it is necessary to further reduce the shortlist, assessment will also occur against desirable
  criteria where included.
Panel members may be requested by the chair of the panel to provide comments in writing regarding
  shortlisting to the chair of the selection panel or through involvement in a shortlisting meeting.
Top 
4.4.2 Advice to shortlisted candidates 
All shortlisted applicants must be advised  by the organisational area
  organising the interviews or by the Human Resources Department for senior staff positions, of the availability
  of selection documentation, of University policy and procedures on recruitment and selection, and of
  parking restrictions at QUT. Shortlisted candidates should be asked if they have any
special requirements regarding access.
Shortlisted applicants required to present must be informed of University guidelines on the conduct
  of the pre-interview presentation (see 
B/4.4.3
and 
B/4.4.4
). Shortlisted
  applicants required to undertake a work test or other selection method must be informed of this prior
to interview.
Top 
4.4.3 Selection methods 
At least three forms of University approved selection methods  must be used as part of the selection
  process. These are the application, the interview, and one other method.
Application
Applications are assessed as part of the shortlisting process.
Interview
All formal interview schedules include times for selection panel organisation and decision making,
  prior to and subsequent to interviews.
Within any one selection process, all interviews have a similar structure, and each applicant is
  given reasonable and equitable opportunity to respond to similar areas of questioning, and to establish
  their claims against the selection criteria.
 Questions about personal circumstances are not asked unless they are directly relevant to the job    requirements and their relevance is explained at the outset. Such questions normally are asked of all    applicants.
Selection panel members should not make decisions on any unusual matter involving conditions of
employment until cleared with the Human Resources Director or nominee.
Other selection
methods
Selection decisions should be based on multiple sources of data. Therefore the use of selection
   methods in addition to the application and interview is encouraged. Selection  methods may
  include, for example, referee reports, psycho-metric tests, in-basket tests (that is, problem solving/prioritising),
  presentations, pre-interview presentations or folios. The administration of any selection tests must
  be approved by the Human Resources Department in advance.
Referee reports may be verbal or written and may be received before or after the interview. Referees
  are to be provided with the selection criteria for the position, but it is for the referee to determine
  in what form they wish to respond. Where verbal reports are given, the member of the selection panel
  obtaining the report (usually the Chair) should make an appropriate record of the conversation with
  the referee.
For senior management positions (other than Vice-Chancellor and Deputy Vice-Chancellors) the Vice-Chancellor
  / Deputy Vice-Chancellor (Academic) meets with the panel Chair, executive dean and/or representative
  from Human Resources Department before the position is advertised to decide on the recruitment and
  selection process.
Top 
4.4.4 Pre-interview presentation 
A pre-interview presentation may be used as a formal component of the selection process.
The selection panel, on the advice of the executive dean of faculty/head of division, may either set
  topics for all applicants' presentation or may allow all candidates to determine their own topic.
The executive dean of faculty / head of division determines which organisational areas are to be invited
  to attend the presentation. Members of the selection panel are invited to attend all presentations.
The executive dean of faculty / head of division appoints a Chair for the presentation.
Report on pre-interview presentation
A written report to the selection panel must be in writing by the presentation Chair or staff representative
  on the selection panel, and include comments on the presentation and its reception by attendees. The
  report on the presentation is considered by the selection panel as part of the documentation relating
  to the applicant. 
Issues which may be addressed in the report include:
the candidate's knowledge of a relevant area;
the candidate's skills of conceptualisation and interpretation;
the candidate's presentation and communication skills.
Presentations are not opportunities to assess candidates' teaching abilities. The report to the selection
  panel should not comment on this factor.
Top 
4.4.5 Recommendation for appointment 
The recommendation for appointment is determined on the essential criteria for the position. Where
  it is necessary to further differentiate applicants, reference is made to both the essential and desirable
  criteria where included.
Selection panels must provide clear documentation of all stages of the standard selection process,
  including the following aspects:
the selection criteria, both essential and desirable;
an indication of the relative merits of all shortlisted applicants in accordance with the selection
    criteria (selection panel ratings);
the reason/s the successful applicant was selected;
the gender breakdown of applicants and shortlisted applicants;
dissenting reports from members unable to support the final recommendation of the panel.
This information is summarised on a form available from the 
Human
    Resources Department
Top 
4.4.6 Approval of appointment 
Appointments are approved in accordance with the Schedule of Authorities and Delegations (MOPP 
Appendix
3
Before approval of appointment, the officer delegated to approve the appointment (the authorising officer)
  must be satisfied that the selection panel's report contains the information necessary to support the
  panel's recommendation on the appointment, and that University policy has been complied with. The authorising
  officer receives advice and assistance from the Human Resources Department.
If not satisfied, the authorising officer must enquire further on aspects of the process. The authorising
  officer may also direct the selection panel to make further enquiries. Where an authorising officer
  does not approve the panel's recommendation, the officer will document the reasons for so doing to
  the Chair of the panel.
Selection panel recommendations must be forwarded from the authorising officer to the Human Resources
  Director together with the complete job file.
Top 
4.4.7 Post-appointment process 
Following approval by the relevant authorising officer, the Human Resources Department produces a
letter of appointment, a copy of which is forwarded to the head of organisational unit.
The Human Resources Department is responsible for:
  checking and certifying that classification and  salary scales are appropriate to the position,
  ensuring that original educational  qualifications are sighted,
  ensuring that criminal  history checks are conducted for positions where criminal history is relevant  to the inherent requirements of the position, and 
  checking and certifying that University  selection policy and procedures have been followed.
On receipt of acceptance of appointment, the relevant head of organisational unit is advised.
See 
B/12.2
for information on orientation and induction programs for new staff.
Top 
4.4.8 Notification and feedback 
No commitment of employment may be made formally or informally by a member of a selection panel to
  any applicant, nor any discussion entered into on selection panel deliberations and decisions with
applicants, prior to approval of appointment by the authorising officer.
All unsuccessful shortlisted applicants are notified in writing by the Human Resources Department.
To promote the University as an employer of choice, unsuccessful shortlisted applicants may obtain from
Human Resources Department the selection panel's rating of their application. Chairs of selection panels
(or nominees) are required to contact all unsuccessful shortlisted candidates and advise them verbally
of the outcome of the selection exercise, offer to provide verbal feedback on their application and interview
performance, and acknowledge their participation in the selection process.
Top 
4.4.9 Selection records 
Human Resources Department keeps records of individual selections, including selection documentation
  and selectors' notes for one year. The application and documentation such as referee reports of the
successful candidate will be placed on their personnel file, once their appointment is finalised.
Top 
4.4.10 Variation to Policy 
In exceptional circumstances, with the concurrence of the selection  panel Chair and the Human Resources Director, or nominee, the relevant  authorising officer may approve a variation to this policy and procedures. Any  such variation will be documented and held in the Human Resources Department  with other information on the position.
Top 
4.4.11 Monitoring of selection process 
The Human Resources Director and the Equity Director, or their nominees, may attend any University
  selection process meeting to receive and review all relevant documentation and to observe and advise
  the Chair on University selection procedures. Any such attendance is recorded in the selection panel's
record of proceedings.
The Human Resources Director or nominee provides an annual review of selection statistics to the Vice-Chancellor's
  Advisory Committee.
This review includes a summary presentation and analysis of:
application profiles for advertised positions by salary classification and gender;
shortlisting and selection profiles by classification and gender;
gender balance of selection panels;
appointments and reappointments to long-term positions by classification and gender;
starting salary point of successful applicants by gender;
special conditions of appointment (including tenure) for applicants by gender.
The review may include recommendations for change to recruitment and selection policy and procedures
  as deemed appropriate.
Top 
Related Documents 
MOPP B/4.3 Selection panels
MOPP B/4.5 Appointment by invitation
MOPP Appendix 3 Schedule of Authorities and Delegations
Top 
Modification History 
Date
Sections
Source
Details
   13.08.09
   B/4.4.7
   Vice-Chancellor
  Revised policy to include criminal history check
   18.04.09
   B/4.4.10
   Vice-Chancellor
  Revised policy in accordance with current practice
23.06.06
B/4.4.6
Human Resources Department
Editorial amendment (revised to link directly to Schedule of Authorities and Delegations for
        details of appointment authorities)
01.03.06
All
Council
Revised policy
03.09.03
All
Council
Revised in accordance with new policy on duty statements and selection criteria
        (B/4.2)
24.06.03
B/4.4.6
Vice-Chancellor
Revised to include approval authority for appointment of faculty research centre
        directors
04.05.01
B/4.4.1
Human Resources Department
Change to reflect recommendations arising from Continuous Improvement review
28.03.01
All
Council
Approved updated policy
Top 
    Chapter A | Chapter B | Chapter C | Chapter D | Chapter E | Chapter F | Chapter G | Chapter H | Chapter I | Appendices | Protocol for MOPP Policy | Recent Updates
    QUT Home | MOPP Home
    CRICOS No. 00213J
    Privacy | Copyright | Accessibility
    Last modified 12-May-2010
    Contact us | Feedback | Disclaimer
