QUT | MOPP | B/4.5 Appointment by invitation
            QUT&nbsp;Home
          Contact&nbsp;us
          Search
      MOPP Home
      Protocol for MOPP Policy
      Recent Updates
      B/4.5 Appointment by invitation
Chapters
A - Governance/Organisation
B - Human Resources
C - Learning/Teaching
D - Research/Development
E - Student Administration
F - Information Management
G - Financial Management
H - Physical Facilities
I - International/Community
MOPP Appendices
MOPP Protocol
MOPP Updates
[Print-friendly version]
Contact OfficerCoordinator, HR Advisory Services 
Approval Date01/03/2006 
Approval AuthorityCouncil 
Date of Next Review01/03/2009 
4.5.1 Appointment by invitation policy 
Related Documents 
Modification History 
4.5.1 Appointment by invitation policy 
In exceptional circumstances the Vice-Chancellor may waive the requirement to advertise a position
and make an appointment by invitation.
In these circumstances the following procedures will apply prior to appointment by invitation.
The relevant executive dean of faculty, via the Deputy Vice-Chancellor (Academic), or head of division
    will make a submission to the Vice-Chancellor outlining justification for appointment to be made
    by invitation. The Vice-Chancellor may consult with the Human Resources Director regarding the submission.
In the case of appointment as executive dean of faculty, the Deputy Vice-Chancellor (Academic) will
    make a submission to the Vice-Chancellor. In the case of appointment as Deputy Vice-Chancellor or head
    of division, the Vice-Chancellor may, following consultation with the Human Resources Director, determine
    that appointment by invitation may be considered and document the decision.
A submission will include the curriculum vitae of the proposed candidate, proposed composition
    of the appointment panel having regard to the general requirements for constitution of selection
    panels (see 
B/4.3.1
), the proposed process
    for assessment of the candidate, and the exceptional circumstances justifying an appointment by invitation.
Appointment panels will include a member(s) of Council where such membership is required by University
    policy on selection panels (see section 
B/4.3
The proposed process for assessment must be appropriate to the type and level of the position and be
    designed to assist the panel to assess the candidate against the selection criteria and requirements
    of the position.
Where the Vice-Chancellor determines that appointment by invitation may be considered, an appointment
    panel will be established. The composition of the panel and the process used to assess the candidate
  will be determined by the Vice-Chancellor having regard to the type and level of the position. 
The appointment panel will make a recommendation to the Vice-Chancellor. 
The Vice-Chancellor will make a determination on the suitability of the candidate and decide to
        approve or decline appointment by invitation. The Vice-Chancellor will report to Council on appointments
        made under this provision. 
All relevant documentation will be held in the Human Resources Department with other information
    on the position.
Further information on the process and required documentation is available at the Human Resources website.
Top 
Related Documents 
MOPP B/4.3 Selection panels
MOPP B/4.4 Selection and appointment processes
Appointment by invitation protocols - 
Human
Resources website
Top 
Modification History 
Date
Sections
Source
Details
01.03.06
All
Council
Revised policy (minor amendment to clarify process for appointing by invitation)
10.12.03
All
Council
New policy (endorsed by Planning and Resources Committee 13.11.03)
Top 
    Chapter A | Chapter B | Chapter C | Chapter D | Chapter E | Chapter F | Chapter G | Chapter H | Chapter I | Appendices | Protocol for MOPP Policy | Recent Updates
    QUT Home | MOPP Home
    CRICOS No. 00213J
    Privacy | Copyright | Accessibility
    Last modified 12-May-2010
    Contact us | Feedback | Disclaimer
