QUT | MOPP | B/5.1 Vice-Chancellor’s Awards for Excellence
            QUT&nbsp;Home
          Contact&nbsp;us
          Search
      MOPP Home
      Protocol for MOPP Policy
      Recent Updates
      B/5.1 Vice-Chancellor’s Awards for Excellence
Chapters
A - Governance/Organisation
B - Human Resources
C - Learning/Teaching
D - Research/Development
E - Student Administration
F - Information Management
G - Financial Management
H - Physical Facilities
I - International/Community
MOPP Appendices
MOPP Protocol
MOPP Updates
[Print-friendly version]
Contact OfficerHuman Resources Director 
Approval Date26/05/2009 
Approval AuthorityVice-Chancellor 
Date of Next Review01/07/2012 
5.1.1 Principles 
  5.1.2 Criteria  for Vice-Chancellor's Awards for Excellence 
  5.1.3 Eligibility  for Vice-Chancellor's Awards for Excellence 
  5.1.4 Awards 
  5.1.5 Vice-Chancellor's  Awards Committee 
  Related Documents 
  Modification History 
5.1.1 Principles
The Vice-Chancellor's Awards for Excellence aim to recognise exceptional  performance of staff who demonstrate sustained and outstanding achievement in  activities that are aligned to the University's vision and strategic goals.
The number of awards granted each year will be determined by  Vice-Chancellor's Awards Committee in accordance with the quality of  nominations received. A maximum of 20 awards will be granted annually.
An open call for nominations will occur early in the year and an annual  award ceremony will be held mid-year to announce the recipients.
Award guidelines and nomination procedures are available on the Human  Resources website.
Top
5.1.2 Criteria for Vice-Chancellor's Awards for  Excellence
The Vice-Chancellor's Awards for Excellence are for eligible staff of  the University who demonstrate distinguished sustained achievement in the  workplace. The nominations will be based on one or more of the following  criteria: 
  Research 
  Learning and teaching 
  Partnerships and engagement 
  Client focus 
  Innovative and creative practice 
  Leadership. 
Top
5.1.3 Eligibility for Vice-Chancellor's Awards for  Excellence
All ongoing and fixed-term academic staff, sessional academic staff, and  ongoing and fixed-term professional staff are eligible to be nominated for a  Vice-Chancellor&rsquo;s Award for Excellence. Individual awards may be granted to  senior staff of the University only under the Leadership category.
An award may be granted to an individual or to a team of people. Team  nominations would not normally exceed 10 members. Teams may be within a work  area or across organisational areas (eg schools / departments / faculties /  divisions).
A recipient of an award for excellence is only eligible for renomination  in subsequent years on the basis of new supporting evidence.
Any award recipient who is no longer employed by the University at the  time of the announcement of the awards will be issued an Award Certificate but  will not be entitled to award money.
Top
5.1.4 Awards
Vice-Chancellor&rsquo;s Awards for Excellence are presented at an annual  University-wide award ceremony. All recipients will be recognised by the  awarding of a certificate which will detail specific and identifiable reasons  for the award. The Vice-Chancellor will determine annually the maximum amount  for individual and team awards. The award money may be paid as a one-off  non-superannuable salary payment or may be used at the recipient's discretion  for work-related purposes (eg for equipment purchases or to offset costs of  participation in conferences, seminars and training courses). Relevant taxation  will apply to any salary payment.
Any equipment purchased by the University with  award monies remains the property of the University, subject to University  policy. Any expenditure of award monies (other than money paid as salary)  should conform with the University's policy on appropriate expenditure of  University funds (see G/5.1 and the Financial  Management Practice and Procedures Manual ).
Senior staff nominated under the Leadership category will not be  eligible for any monetary award.
 Staff receiving a Vice-Chancellor&rsquo;s Award for Excellence are ineligible  to be considered for a Vice-Chancellor&rsquo;s Performance Award (see B/5.2) in the same year.
Top
5.1.5 Vice-Chancellor's Awards Committee
Vice-Chancellor’s Awards Committee is a Vice-Chancellor's committee established in accordance with Council Procedure 1 (Committees). Vice-Chancellor’s Awards Committee is accountable to the Vice-Chancellor for fulfilling the following terms of reference.
Terms of reference
Vice-Chancellor’s Awards Committee:
  considers nominations for Vice-Chancellor’s Awards for Excellence and recommends to the Vice-Chancellor:
      the number of awards to be granted,
      the recipients of the awards, and
      the amounts to be awarded to each recipient;
  provides advice to the Vice-Chancellor on policy and procedural matters relating to the Vice-Chancellor’s Awards for Excellence.
Membership
  	Vice-Chancellor or nominee as Chair
  	Deputy Vice-Chancellor (Academic) or nominee
  	One head of division nominated by Vice-Chancellor’s Advisory Committee
  	One executive dean of faculty nominated by Vice-Chancellor's Advisory Committee
  	Director, Human Resources or nominee
  	One academic staff member nominated by the Vice-Chancellor
  	One professional staff member nominated by the Vice-Chancellor
  	Two previous award for excellence recipients invited by the Chair (normally one academic and one professional staff member)
A nominee of the Registrar is secretary.
Tenure and frequency of meeting
Terms of office are as detailed in section 6 of Council Procedure 1 - Committees.
Vice-Chancellor’s Awards for Excellence Committee meets on an annual basis.
Reporting
Vice-Chancellor’s Awards for Excellence Committee reports to the Vice-Chancellor annually, usually in conjunction with recommendations for awards. 
TopRelated Documents 
MOPP B/5.2 Vice-Chancellor's Performance Fund
 MOPP G/5 Expenditure
 MOPP Appendix 2 QUT Council Procedures - Council Procedure 1 (Committees)
  Financial  Management Practice and Procedures Manual
 Human Resources Department website - guidelines and nomination procedures  for Vice-Chancellor's Awards for Excellence
Top 
Modification History 
Date
Sections
Source
Details
   26.05.09
   All
  Vice-Chancellor
  Revised policy
26.07.07
All
Vice-Chancellor
New policy (endorsed by Vice-Chancellor&rsquo;s Advisory Committee 20.06.07) - replaces former policies B/12.17 Staff awards and C/11.1 Awards for outstanding academic contribution; former policy B/5.1 Professor Emeritus re-numbered to B/2.1
Top 
    Chapter A | Chapter B | Chapter C | Chapter D | Chapter E | Chapter F | Chapter G | Chapter H | Chapter I | Appendices | Protocol for MOPP Policy | Recent Updates
    QUT Home | MOPP Home
    CRICOS No. 00213J
    Privacy | Copyright | Accessibility
    Last modified 01-Jun-2010
    Contact us | Feedback | Disclaimer
