QUT | MOPP | B/5.6 Faculty Promotion Committees
            QUT&nbsp;Home
          Contact&nbsp;us
          Search
      MOPP Home
      Protocol for MOPP Policy
      Recent Updates
      B/5.6 Faculty Promotion Committees
Chapters
A - Governance/Organisation
B - Human Resources
C - Learning/Teaching
D - Research/Development
E - Student Administration
F - Information Management
G - Financial Management
H - Physical Facilities
I - International/Community
MOPP Appendices
MOPP Protocol
MOPP Updates
[Print-friendly version]
Contact OfficerDirector, Governance Services 
Approval Date03/12/2007 
Approval AuthorityVice-Chancellor 
Date of Next Review01/07/2010 
Related Documents 
Modification History 
Faculty  Promotion Committees are Vice-Chancellor's committees established in accordance  with Council Procedure No  1 - Committees. Faculty  Promotion Committees are accountable to the Vice-Chancellor for fulfilling the  following terms of reference.
Terms of reference
A Faculty Promotion Committee considers applications for promotion to Level C (see 
B/5.3)
  and recommends to the executive dean of faculty for approval. The Deputy Vice-Chancellor (Academic)
  will oversee the process.
Membership
  Executive  dean of faculty as Chair 
  One head of school elected by the heads of school in the faculty 
  One member of the academic staff of the faculty, at Level C or above, elected  by and from all academic staff of the faculty holding full-time or  part-time appointments
  One  member, external to the faculty, at Level C or above, who is not a head of  school or executive dean, nominated by the Deputy Vice-Chancellor (Academic). 
On  the request of any applicant or committee member, the Human Resources Director  and the Equity Director, or their nominees, may attend any meeting of a Faculty  Promotion Committee to receive and review all relevant documentation, to  observe the process and advise the Chair on University promotion procedures.  Any such attendance is recorded in the committee&rsquo;s record of proceedings.
The composition of the Faculty  Promotion Committee should ensure a balance of expertise across the core areas  of teaching and research.
Where an application is received  from an Indigenous staff member, the promotion committee is to be  reconstituted, prior to the consideration of any applications, to include an  Indigenous staff member. This will be an additional committee position. In this  circumstance the Secretary to the Faculty Promotion Committee will request that  the Deputy Vice-Chancellor (Academic) nominate the Indigenous staff member to  become a committee member.
A  nominee of the executive dean of faculty is secretary.
Any  person who is an applicant shall not be a member of the committee or act as a  referee for any applicant to that committee.
As  University policy requires care in constituting committees to ensure gender  balance, those memberships of the Faculty Promotion Committee to be filled by  appointment or nomination without election are to be finalised only after the  outcomes of elections are known in relation to positions which are required to  be filled by election. 
Tenure and frequency of meeting
Terms  of office are as detailed in section 6 of Council Procedure No  1 - Committees except  that, to ensure some overlap of expertise, half the elected and nominated  positions will be reconstituted in each year of a two year period.
Faculty  Promotion Committees meet as required. 
Reporting
Faculty Promotion Committees advise the Deputy Vice-Chancellor (Academic) and Vice-Chancellor annually,
  on the outcomes of the faculty promotion processes.
Top 
Related Documents 
MOPP B/5.3 Promotion for academic staff (to Levels C, D and E)
MOPP B/5.4 Promotion for academic staff (Level A to Level B)
B/5.5 University Promotion Committee
B/5.6 Faculty Promotion Committees
Promotion Committee Procedures
Promotion for Academic and Research Staff
Top 
Modification History 
Date
Sections
Source
Details
  03.12.07
   All
  Vice-Chancellor
  Revised terms of reference consistent with  academic promotion policies; policy renumbered to B/5.6 (formerly B/5.4)
  27.07.07
   All
   Human Resources Director 
  Policy renumbered to B/5.4 (formerly B/10.2) 
  16.04.07
   All
   Vice-Chancellor
  Revised membership provisions consistent with revised academic promotion  policy (B/10.1) (endorsed by Vice-Chancellor&rsquo;s Advisory Committee 04.04.07)
28.03.06
All
Vice-Chancellor
Revised terms of reference to delegate approval authority for Levels B and C
        applicants to executive deans
28.03.06
All
Secretariat
Renumbered and relocated to B/10.2 (formerly B/10.1.5)
29.06.04
All
Vice-Chancellor
Revised terms of reference and membership provisions, in accordance with recommendations
        of Vice-Chancellor's Panel of the 2003/2004 Committees Review
02.06.04
All
Council
Revised constitution of promotion committees to include an Indigenous staff member
        when an application from an Indigenous staff member is being considered
Top 
    Chapter A | Chapter B | Chapter C | Chapter D | Chapter E | Chapter F | Chapter G | Chapter H | Chapter I | Appendices | Protocol for MOPP Policy | Recent Updates
    QUT Home | MOPP Home
    CRICOS No. 00213J
    Privacy | Copyright | Accessibility
    Last modified 01-Jun-2010
    Contact us | Feedback | Disclaimer
