QUT | MOPP | B/5.2 Vice-Chancellor’s Performance Fund
            QUT&nbsp;Home
          Contact&nbsp;us
          Search
      MOPP Home
      Protocol for MOPP Policy
      Recent Updates
      B/5.2 Vice-Chancellor’s Performance Fund
Chapters
A - Governance/Organisation
B - Human Resources
C - Learning/Teaching
D - Research/Development
E - Student Administration
F - Information Management
G - Financial Management
H - Physical Facilities
I - International/Community
MOPP Appendices
MOPP Protocol
MOPP Updates
[Print-friendly version]
Contact OfficerHuman Resources Director 
Approval Date26/05/2009 
Approval AuthorityVice-Chancellor 
Date of Next Review01/07/2012 
5.2.1 Principles 
  5.2.2 Criteria  and eligibility for  Vice-Chancellor&rsquo;s Performance Fund awards  
  5.2.3 Awards 
  5.2.4 Review  process 
  5.2.5 Reporting 
  Related Documents 
  Modification History 
5.2.1 Principles
The Vice-Chancellor's Performance Fund aims to acknowledge and reward  the outstanding achievement of academic and professional staff by providing  performance awards. The Vice-Chancellor&rsquo;s Performance Fund enables recognition  of staff who have made a superior contribution in a particular area of  activity.
Vice-Chancellor&rsquo;s Performance Fund awards are offered annually, with  funds provided by the Vice-Chancellor and deployed to faculties and divisions  based on the number of full-time equivalent staff employed. An advisory  committee within each faculty and division considers nominations and makes  recommendations to the executive dean of faculty / head of division. An open  call for nominations will occur mid-year once the recipients of the Vice-Chancellor&rsquo;s  Awards for Excellence (see B/5.1)  have been announced at the annual ceremony.&nbsp;  The timetable for consideration of nominations is to be advertised in  each faculty or division. Award guidelines and nomination procedures are  available on the Human  Resources website.
Unless otherwise approved by the Vice-Chancellor, at least 50% of the Vice-Chancellor&rsquo;s  Performance Fund will be directed to the recognition of outstanding frontline  teaching and learning, or the direct support thereof.
Top
5.2.2 Criteria and eligibility for  Vice-Chancellor&rsquo;s Performance Fund awards
Vice-Chancellor's Performance Fund awards recognise outstanding achievement  by staff over a specified review period or over the past twelve months. All  ongoing and fixed-term academic and professional staff, sessional academic  staff, and casual professional staff of the University are eligible to receive  a performance award. Teams are eligible to be nominated for a Performance Fund  award.
The Vice-Chancellor's Performance Fund award is not conditional on  Performance Planning and Review (PPR) outcomes (see B/9). However the staff  member or team must have made a significant and superior contribution or  innovation in a specific area of activity.
Senior staff are not eligible to receive a Vice-Chancellor's Performance  Fund award.
Staff are ineligible to be considered for a Vice-Chancellor&rsquo;s  Performance Award if they were a recipient of a Vice-Chancellor&rsquo;s Award for  Excellence in the same year.
Top
5.2.3 Awards
The Vice-Chancellor's Performance Fund awards are administered by the  relevant executive dean of faculty / head of division. Both individual and team  awards are available.&nbsp; Recipients of an  award will receive a certificate and a one-off payment.&nbsp; The Vice-Chancellor will determine annually  the amount for individual and team awards.
The award money may be paid as a one-off non-superannuable salary  payment or may be used at the recipient's discretion for work-related purposes  (eg for equipment purchases or to offset costs of participation in conferences,  seminars and training courses). Relevant taxation will apply to any salary  payment.
Any equipment purchased by the University with  award monies remains the property of the University, subject to University  policy. Any expenditure of award monies (other than money paid as salary) should  conform with the University's policy on appropriate expenditure of University  funds (see G/5.1 and the Financial  Management Practice and Procedures Manual  ).
Top
5.2.4 Review process
Vice-Chancellor's Advisory Committee and Assurance and Risk Management  Services are responsible for reviewing the processes and practices associated  with the Vice-Chancellor's Performance Fund awards. The performance awards will  be reviewed periodically by the Vice-Chancellor to ensure the maintenance of  value and relativity with the Vice-Chancellor's Awards for Excellence (see B/5.1).
Top
5.2.5 Reporting
Executive deans of faculty / heads of division report annually to the  Vice-Chancellor, through Vice-Chancellor's Advisory Committee, on the  Vice-Chancellor&rsquo;s Performance Fund awards and funding decisions.
TopRelated Documents 
MOPP B/5.1 Vice-Chancellor's Awards for Excellence
MOPP B/9 Performance Planning and Review
MOPP G/5 Expenditure
Financial  Management Practices and Procedures Manual
Human Resources website - guidelines for Vice Chancellor's Performance Fund awards 
Top 
Modification History 
Date
Sections
Source
Details
  26.05.09
  All
  Vice-Chancellor
  Revised policy
  04.03.08
  B/5.2.2
  Vice-Chancellor
  Revised policy to include casual professional staff
26.07.07
All
Vice-Chancellor
New  policy (endorsed by Vice-Chancellor's Advisory Committee 20.06.07); former  policy B/5.2 re-numbered to B/2.2
Top 
    Chapter A | Chapter B | Chapter C | Chapter D | Chapter E | Chapter F | Chapter G | Chapter H | Chapter I | Appendices | Protocol for MOPP Policy | Recent Updates
    QUT Home | MOPP Home
    CRICOS No. 00213J
    Privacy | Copyright | Accessibility
    Last modified 12-May-2010
    Contact us | Feedback | Disclaimer
