QUT | MOPP | B/5.3 Promotion for academic staff (to Levels C, D and E)
            QUT&nbsp;Home
          Contact&nbsp;us
          Search
      MOPP Home
      Protocol for MOPP Policy
      Recent Updates
      B/5.3 Promotion for academic staff (to Levels C, D and E)
Chapters
A - Governance/Organisation
B - Human Resources
C - Learning/Teaching
D - Research/Development
E - Student Administration
F - Information Management
G - Financial Management
H - Physical Facilities
I - International/Community
MOPP Appendices
MOPP Protocol
MOPP Updates
[Print-friendly version]
Contact OfficerPrincipal HR Officer (Policy & Workplace Relations) 
Approval Date03/12/2007 
Approval AuthorityVice-Chancellor 
Date of Next Review01/12/2010 
5.3.1 Policy statement
5.3.2 Definitions
5.3.3 Eligibility
5.3.4 Timing of rounds 
5.3.5 Approving authority 
5.3.6 Confidentiality 
5.3.7 Role of PPR Supervisor 
5.3.8 Promotion process 
5.3.9 Notification and feedback 
5.3.10 Effective date of promotion 
5.3.11 Promotion while on probation 
5.3.12 Use of title for research staff
5.3.13 Resignation prior to completion of promotion process
5.3.14 Appeals 
Related Documents 
Modification History 
5.3.1 Policy statement 
Recognition and reward of the accomplishments of staff is essential to the  motivation, attraction and retention of quality staff. QUT is committed to  recognising and rewarding such accomplishments which further its vision and  goals. 
In line with this commitment, QUT provides academic staff with access to a  promotion scheme which focuses on demonstrated accomplishment across the areas  of teaching, research and scholarship, and service. These areas cover the  diversity of academic activities and recognise disciplinary differences.
Staff are guided and assisted in career development and opportunities for  promotion through the University's Performance Planning and Review process (see B/9.2).
Top 
5.3.2 Definitions 
For the purposes of this policy:
  &quot;research staff&quot; means research-only academic staff  appointed at Levels B - D 
  &quot;head of school&quot; means the head of a school or  equivalent and includes portfolio directors in Creative Industries and the Manager, Oodgeroo Unit 
  &quot;executive dean &quot; means the executive dean of a  faculty or equivalent 
  &quot;faculty&quot; means faculty or equivalent
  &quot;Promotion Committee&quot; refers to Faculty Promotion  Committee or University Promotion Committee as relevant. 
Top 
5.3.3 Eligibility 
To apply for promotion an academic staff member must:
  hold an on-going or fixed-term appointment  (which may be either full-time or part-time), and
  have a minimum period of service with QUT of one  year at the time of application.
Fixed-term appointees are eligible to be promoted within the term of their  contract.
Sessional academic staff members are ineligible for promotion.
Eligible academic and research staff may apply for promotion to the next  higher level to their substantive appointment only.
Staff members who are not successful in their application for promotion in  one year may not apply for promotion in the following year except in the  circumstances below: 
  where the staff member's  application in the previous year was a first application, or 
  where the Chair of the Faculty Promotion Committee or the Vice-Chancellor (in the case of the University Promotion Committee) decides, on the basis of material provided by a staff       member, that because of extenuating circumstances the staff member will be significantly disadvantaged by not being able to apply in the next promotion round. 
Top 
5.3.4 Timing of promotion rounds 
Promotion rounds will be conducted every year.
Top 
5.3.5 Approving authority 
Promotion to Level C will be approved by the executive dean on the  recommendation of a Faculty Promotion Committee (B/5.6).
Promotion to Levels D and E will be approved by the Vice-Chancellor on the  recommendation of the University Promotion Committee (B/5.5).
Top 
5.3.6 Confidentiality 
All material and deliberations relating to  promotion applications will be treated in the strictest confidence by all  participants of the promotion process. It is acknowledged that material and  information relating to the promotion application may have to be referred to an  appeals panel in the event that an appeal is lodged by the staff member. 
Top 
5.3.7 Role of PPR Supervisor 
All academic staff have a supervisor for the purposes of the Performance  Planning and Review (PPR) process  B/9.2). Supervisors are  expected to provide guidance, information and feedback to current and  prospective applicants for promotion.
Meetings to provide feedback between unsuccessful applicants and the  executive dean or Vice-Chancellor will be attended by heads of school or PPR  supervisors (B/5.3.8).  Based on this feedback, the supervisor will guide the staff member's  performance and development through the PPR process. 
Top 
5.3.8 Promotion process 
(a) Qualifications and equivalent  accreditation or standing
To be considered for promotion to a higher level, an applicant for promotion  to Level C, D or E will normally have a doctoral qualification in the relevant  discipline area.
Applicants who do not possess such qualifications will be required to make a  case for equivalent accreditation or standing. Guidelines for  Judging Equivalent Accreditation or Standing are available on the Human Resources website.
The Promotion Committee will determine whether qualification requirements  are met in accordance with the Promotion Committee Procedures.
(b) Criteria for promotion
The criteria for promotion are:
  teaching
  research and scholarship, and
  service.
The level of attainment and examples of accomplishment required for  promotion to each level are provided in the table entitled Criteria for Promotion available at Academic  Promotion on the Human Resources website.
Evidence of accomplishment in all three criteria will normally be required  except where an applicant is seeking promotion as a Research or Teaching  Intensive staff member.
The examples of achievement under each criterion for promotion to each  level are cumulative. That  is, the examples of achievements relevant to promotion from Level B to Level C  also apply to promotion from Level C to D and so on. However, some examples  have been repeated at higher academic levels for clarity and guidance.
An applicant for promotion is not expected  to demonstrate achievement in all of  the examples provided for the level of promotion being sought. Furthermore,  these examples do not represent an exhaustive list of achievement for each  level and the nature of achievement may vary based on disciplinary norms.
Applicants for promotion will be assessed on their relative overall merit in  respect of the criteria for the relevant level. The expectations outlined in  the table Criteria  for Promotion available on the Human Resources website.
 demonstrate accomplishment for each of the three criteria at  the level required to be recommended for promotion.
(c) Weighting by applicant 
  Applicants will nominate the percentage weight they wish to be given to each  of the three criteria for consideration by the Promotion Committee in assessing  their application. 
  Weightings assigned by an applicant will be within the ranges set for each  level (unless an applicant applies for promotion as a research or teaching  intensive staff member) and must total 100%. These ranges reflect the University's  expectations of a staff member's profile and accomplishments for each academic  level.
The ranges for each level are: 
    &nbsp;
    To level C 
    To level D 
    To level E 
    Teaching 
    20 - 60% 
    20 - 60% 
    20 - 60% 
    Research and Scholarship 
    20 - 60% 
    20 - 60% 
    20 - 60% 
    Service 
    20 - 40% 
    20 - 50% 
    20 - 50% 
Research or Teaching Intensive  Applicants
Applications for promotion from staff who do not contribute in all three  criteria will be allowed for staff members in research or teaching intensive  roles. Under this arrangement, an applicant will weight one criterion (either teaching or  research and scholarship) above the specified maximum. Such an applicant will  be regarded as a research or teaching intensive staff member and be expected to  have a weighting of up to 80% in either teaching or research and scholarship  and a minimum weighting of 20% in one other criterion or a minimum weighting of  20% across the two remaining criteria.
A research or teaching intensive applicant may wish to consult with the  executive dean prior to submitting an application to the Promotion Committee.
(d) Promotion Committee procedures
The  Promotion Committee will assess applications in accordance with the Promotion Committee Procedures on the Human Resources website.
(e) Evidence
The Promotion Committee will make its determination solely on the  documentary evidence listed below and, where applicable, any further  information provided by the applicant during an interview. Promotion Committee  members shall not introduce any new information into the process unless the  Committee is seeking to verify claims made by the applicant.
The following documentary evidence is used by the Promotion Committee: 
  Application
It is essential that applicants consult the Information  for Applicants booklet for additional information in relation to the  preparation and submission of applications for promotion.
  Head of  school or executive dean's report
  The Promotion Committee will be provided with a  written report which contains an evaluation of the applicant's suitability for  promotion, framed against the promotion criteria. A copy of this report will be  forwarded to the applicant when it is provided to the Promotion Committee.
   For promotion to Level C, this report will be  prepared by the head of school.
  For promotion to Level D or E, this report will  be prepared by the executive dean.
  The report will be prepared in consultation with  the staff member's PPR-AS supervisor and the relevant institute director/s  where applicable. The report will also be informed by advice received from the  senior academic staff of the school / faculty.
  Where the head of school / executive dean is a  member of the Promotion Committee, the staff member may request that the report  be prepared by a senior academic within the school / faculty appointed by the  head of school / executive dean.
  The report should include an assessment and  rating (out of 10) of the applicant's accomplishments in each of the criteria  for promotion. A single score (out of 10) is then calculated by applying the  weightings nominated by the applicant to the ratings for each of the criteria. In  determining the rating for each criterion, the head of school / executive dean may  refer to the rating scale applied by the Promotion Committee [see Promotion Committee  Procedures].
  Applicant updates, which may be submitted prior to shortlisting and/or interview and may include a response to the head of school / executive dean report.
  Research and consultancy reports supplied by the Division of  Research and Commercialisation.
  Referees reports, as determined relevant by the  Committee.
  The Secretary of the relevant Promotion Committee  may seek reports from referees nominated by the applicant as determined by the  Committee at either the shortlisting or interview stage (refer Promotion  Committee Procedures or Information  for Applicants booklet).
Top 
5.3.9 Notification and feedback 
For promotion to Level C, the executive dean will inform the applicant  verbally, then in writing, of the outcome of their application. An unsuccessful  applicant will be invited to meet with the relevant executive dean and head of  school or the PPR supervisor to receive feedback on their application.
For promotion to Levels D and E the Secretary, University Promotion  Committee, will inform the applicant verbally, then in writing, of the outcome  of their application. An unsuccessful applicant will be invited to meet with  the Vice-Chancellor and their head of school or PPR supervisor if nominated by  the head of school to receive feedback on their application.
Feedback will include provision of the Promotion Committee's ratings for  each criterion and the score together with a written summary of the rationale  for the ratings. Feedback to unsuccessful applicants will be as immediate as  practicable after the application has been declared unsuccessful and in time to  enable an unsuccessful applicant to appeal on the grounds of process.
Top 
5.3.10  Effective date of promotion 
The effective date of promotion for successful applicants is 1 August of the year in which the promotion round commences.
Top 
5.3.11 Promotion while on probation 
Where a successful applicant is serving a probationary period, the remaining  period of probation will be waived and the appointment confirmed at the  academic level of the promotion. If any special conditions attached to the  applicant's probation are not met at the time the promotion is approved, then  these conditions will continue to apply through PPR-AS. For example, a  requirement that the staff member continues to make progress towards a higher  degree may be included as an agreed goal in the PPR-AS Activity Statement.
Top5.3.12 Use of title for research staff
Successful applicants for promotion as research staff will be given the  following rank (and title where applicable): 
        Level 
    Rank
    C
    Senior Research Fellow 
    D
    Principal Research Fellow (with title of Associate Professor)
    E*
    Senior Principal Research Fellow / Professorial Fellow* (with title of Professor)
* appropriate rank determined by the executive dean
Top
5.3.13 Resignation prior to completion of the promotion  process
 Where an applicant for promotion tenders their resignation from the  University prior to the promotion being approved, their application will be  regarded as withdrawn.
 Top 
 5.3.14 Appeals
 An applicant may appeal only on the grounds of process.
 An appeal on the grounds of process may be lodged with the Human Resources  Director within two months of the date of written advice to the applicant on  the outcome of an application. The appellant will outline their reasons for the  appeal.
 The Human Resources Director will convene a panel comprising: 
   the Registrar or nominee, and 
   a nominee of the staff       representatives on the Academic Consultative Committee after consultation with the staff member 
The panel will review the process that was followed by the relevant  Promotion Committee in respect of the applicant who has appealed.
 (The Academic Consultative Committee is the committee constituted under the QUT Enterprise Bargaining  Agreement (Academic Staff )).
 Where the panel concludes that there has been no breach of process, the panel  will advise the appellant accordingly. There will be no further right of  appeal. Where the panel concludes that there has been a breach of process, then  all relevant documentation will be referred to the Chair of the relevant  Promotion Committee with a recommendation to address the breach of process. 
 Top 
Related Documents 
MOPP B/9.2 - Performance planning and review for academic staff
B/5.5 University Promotion Committee
B/5.6 Faculty Promotion Committees
Promotion for Academic and Research Staff - Information for Applicants, Criteria for Promotion and Promotion Committee Procedures
Top 
Modification History 
Date
Sections
Source
Details
  15.12.07
  B/5.3.2
  Vice-Chancellor
  Removed  reference to QUT Carseldine and Executive Director, Northern Campuses (position disestablished  from 31.12.07)
  03.12.07
   All
  Vice-Chancellor
  Revised policy (endorsed by Vice-Chancellor's  Advisory Committee 21.11.07)
  27.07.07
   All
   Human Resources Director 
  Policy renumbered to B/5.3 (formerly B/10.1) 
  16.04.07
   All
   Vice-Chancellor
  Revised policy (endorsed by Vice-Chancellor's  Advisory Committee 04.04.07)
28.03.06
All
Vice-Chancellor
Revised policy
17.11.05
B/10.1.7, B/10.1.11
Vice-Chancellor
Revised policy and "criteria for promotion" table to comply with Higher Education
        Workplace Relations Requirements (HEWRR)
02.06.04
B/10.1.4, B/10.1.10, B/10.1.11
Council
Revised constitution of promotion committees to include an Indigenous staff member when an
        application from an Indigenous staff member is being considered; revised rating process for assessing
        applicants and amended appeals timeframe (endorsed by Planning and Resources Committee 19.05.04);
        effective from 2004 promotions round.
11.12.01
B/10.1.7
Vice-Chancellor
Amended "criteria for promotion" table
24.10.01
All
Council
Approved new policy (replaces personal appointment to professor or associate professor and
        personal appointment to senior lecturer or lecturer)
Top 
    Chapter A | Chapter B | Chapter C | Chapter D | Chapter E | Chapter F | Chapter G | Chapter H | Chapter I | Appendices | Protocol for MOPP Policy | Recent Updates
    QUT Home | MOPP Home
    CRICOS No. 00213J
    Privacy | Copyright | Accessibility
    Last modified 12-May-2010
    Contact us | Feedback | Disclaimer
