QUT | MOPP | B/5.5 University Promotion Committee
            QUT&nbsp;Home
          Contact&nbsp;us
          Search
      MOPP Home
      Protocol for MOPP Policy
      Recent Updates
      B/5.5 University Promotion Committee
Chapters
A - Governance/Organisation
B - Human Resources
C - Learning/Teaching
D - Research/Development
E - Student Administration
F - Information Management
G - Financial Management
H - Physical Facilities
I - International/Community
MOPP Appendices
MOPP Protocol
MOPP Updates
[Print-friendly version]
Contact OfficerDirector, Governance Services 
Approval Date16/04/2007 
Approval AuthorityVice-Chancellor 
Date of Next Review01/07/2010 
Related Documents 
Modification History 
University Promotion Committee is a Vice-Chancellor's committee established in accordance with 
Council
    Procedure No 1 - Committees
. University
Promotion Committee is accountable to the Vice-Chancellor for fulfilling the following terms of reference.
Terms of reference
University Promotion Committee considers applications for promotion to Levels D and E (see 
B/5.3) and
  recommends to the Vice-Chancellor for approval.
Membership
  Chancellor or nominee as chair
  Vice-Chancellor or nominee
  One member nominated by and from University Academic Board 
  One distinguished external member from the professions, industry or government, nominated by the Vice-Chancellor 
  Two academic staff of the University at Level D or E, elected by and from all the full-time and part-time academic staff, one of whom is at Level D and one at Level E.
  One distinguished external academic nominated by the Vice-Chancellor. 
On the request of any applicant or committee member, the Human  Resources Director and the Equity Director, or their nominees, may attend  any meeting of the University Promotion Committee to receive and review all  relevant documentation, to observe the process and advise the Chair on  University promotion procedures. Any such attendance is recorded in the  committee&rsquo;s record of proceedings.
The composition of the University Promotion  Committee should ensure a balance of expertise across the core areas of  teaching and research.
Where an application is received from an  Indigenous staff member, prior to the consideration of any applications the  University Promotion Committee will be reconstituted to include an  appropriately qualified Indigenous staff member/Indigenous person external to  the University. This will be an additional committee position. In this  circumstance the Secretary to the Promotion Committee will request that the  Vice-Chancellor nominate the Indigenous person to become a Committee member.
A nominee of the Registrar is secretary,  usually the Human Resources Director or nominee.
Any person who is an applicant shall not be a  member of the committee or act as a referee for any applicant to that  committee.
As University policy requires care in  constituting committees to ensure gender balance, those memberships of the  University Promotion Committee to be filled by appointment or nomination  without election are to be finalised only after the outcomes of elections are  known in relation to positions which are required to be filled by election.
The two positions required from Levels D and E  staff will be filled by election with the aim of achieving representation from  different faculties. However where, after nominations have been called, no more  than two nominations are received for these positions and one is at Level D and  one is at Level E, the nominees are declared elected irrespective of faculty.
Tenure and frequency of meetings
Terms of office are as detailed in section 6  of Council  Procedure No 1 - Committees except that, to ensure some overlap of  expertise, half the elected and nominated positions will be reconstituted in each  year of a two year period.
University Promotion Committee meets as  required.
Top 
Related Documents 
MOPP B/5.3 Promotion for academic staff (to Levels C, D and E)
B/5.5 University Promotion Committee
B/5.6 Faculty Promotion Committees
Promotion Committee Procedures
Top 
Modification History 
Date
Sections
Source
Details
  27.07.07
   All
   Human Resources Director 
  Policy renumbered to B/5.5 (formerly B/10.3) 
   16.04.07
   All
   Vice-Chancellor
  Revised membership provisions consistent with  revised academic promotion policy (B/10.1) (endorsed by Vice-Chancellor&rsquo;s  Advisory Committee 04.04.07)
28.03.06
All
Vice-Chancellor
Revised membership provisions
28.03.06
All
Secretariat
Renumbered and relocated to B/10.2 (formerly B/10.1.6)
29.06.04
All
Vice-Chancellor
Revised terms of reference and membership provisions, in accordance with recommendations
        of Vice-Chancellor's Panel of the 2003/2004 Committees Review
02.06.04
All
Council
Revised constitution of promotion committees to include an Indigenous staff member
        when an application from an Indigenous staff member is being considered
Top 
    Chapter A | Chapter B | Chapter C | Chapter D | Chapter E | Chapter F | Chapter G | Chapter H | Chapter I | Appendices | Protocol for MOPP Policy | Recent Updates
    QUT Home | MOPP Home
    CRICOS No. 00213J
    Privacy | Copyright | Accessibility
    Last modified 01-Jun-2010
    Contact us | Feedback | Disclaimer
