QUT | MOPP | B/6.4 Long service leave
            QUT&nbsp;Home
          Contact&nbsp;us
          Search
      MOPP Home
      Protocol for MOPP Policy
      Recent Updates
      B/6.4 Long service leave
Chapters
A - Governance/Organisation
B - Human Resources
C - Learning/Teaching
D - Research/Development
E - Student Administration
F - Information Management
G - Financial Management
H - Physical Facilities
I - International/Community
MOPP Appendices
MOPP Protocol
MOPP Updates
[Print-friendly version]
Contact OfficerManager, Policy Planning and Workplace Relations, HR 
Approval Date17/11/2005 
Approval AuthorityVice-Chancellor 
Date of Next Review01/07/2009 
6.4.1 Application 
6.4.2 Long service leave entitlement 
6.4.3 Taking of leave 
6.4.4 Deferment of long service leave 
6.4.5 Sickness while on long service leave 
6.4.6 Maximum accrual 
6.4.7 Long service leave entitlement upon resignation 
6.4.8 Recognition of previous service for the purposes of long service leave entitlements 
Related Documents 
Modification History 
6.4.1 Application 
This policy applies to academic and professional staff.
Provisions relating to long service leave for senior staff are detailed in the 
QUT Employee Collective Agreement (Senior Staff) 2009-2012
Top 
6.4.2 Long service leave entitlement 
(a) Full-time staff
A full-time staff member who has completed ten (10) years of continuous service will be entitled to
  paid long service leave at the rate of 6.5 working days for each year of continuous service and a proportionate
  amount for a part of an incomplete year.
(b) Part-time staff
Part-time staff accrue long service leave entitlements on a proportional basis.
(c) Casual professional staff and sessional academic staff
Casual professional staff and sessional academic staff are entitled to long
  service leave after ten (10) years continuous service completed on or after
  21 June 1990. Any entitlement to long service leave for service prior to 21
  June 1990 for casual / sessional staff will be considered on a case by case
  basis by the Human Resources Director.
Long service leave entitlement for eligible casual / sessional staff is calculated
  as follows:
Academic staff:
Actual Units
x
0.025
x
hourly rate
Professional staff:
Total Hours
x
0.025
x
hourly rate
For sessional academic staff "actual units" means the total hours paid. The
  hourly rate is defined as the average of the hourly rate paid to the staff
  member during the twelve months service prior to taking long service leave.
Top 
6.4.3 Taking of leave 
Staff may take long service leave wholly or in part, in minimum lots of one (1) week, or less than
  one (1) week in exceptional circumstances (with the approval of the head of school for academic staff,
  or the Human Resources Director on the advice of the supervisor for professional staff).
A professional staff member must apply for long service leave at least three (3) months prior to the
  date the leave is to begin unless otherwise agreed by the supervisor.
Academic staff are entitled to take long service leave at a time of their choosing, providing they
  provide the head of school with at least six (6) months notice prior to the date the leave is to begin.
  Less than six (6) months notice may be given by mutual agreement between the staff member and the head
  of school.
Top 
6.4.4 Deferment of long service leave 
A period of approved long service leave may be deferred in special circumstances, in emergencies or
  in the case of misconduct or serious misconduct, in which case the authorising officer will give details
  of the circumstances to the staff member and authorise reimbursement to the staff member for any expenses
  reasonably incurred as a result of the deferral.
The period of deferral will not exceed three (3) months unless mutually agreed between the authorising
  officer and the staff member.
Top 
6.4.5 Sickness while on long service leave 
Staff who become ill for three (3) or more consecutive working days during long service leave may
  claim sick leave instead of long service leave by submitting a medical certificate for the period of
  the illness.
Top 
6.4.6 Maximum accrual 
  The maximum long service leave       entitlement a staff member can accumulate is eighty (80) working days before       a staff member is required to take leave. 
  The staff member will not be required       to take long service leave within twenty-four (24) months of an intended       date of retirement where the staff member submits written notice of the       intended date of retirement to the Human Resources Director. 
  Upon accumulation of seventy (70) working       days, a supervisor will meet with the staff member to plan and agree on a       suitable time to take long service leave. 
  Upon accumulation of in  excess of eighty (80) working days, the staff member will be given written  notice that up to one third of that leave must be taken at a time convenient to  the University.
The authorising officer will give at least twelve (12) months written notice of the nominated date
        on which the leave will commence (where otherwise agreed with the staff member, this notice may
      be waived). Further: 
at least one third of the staff member's long service leave accrued entitlement must
                      be taken; and
the staff member will not be required to take a further period of long service leave
                for two (2) years after the end of the period of leave taken;
When a staff member fails to take the required leave as specified in (d) above, the leave will
      be deemed to have commenced from the nominated date given by the authorising officer.
Top 
6.4.7 Long service leave entitlement upon resignation 
A staff member will be paid pro-rata long service leave based on completed years of service
      if they resign or are terminated through voluntary or involuntary redundancy, voluntary early retirement,
      or retirement due to ill health. For professional staff, payment in lieu of accumulation of long
  service leave will be made to a maximum period of twenty-six (26) weeks.
The calculation of this sum will be based on the following;
for staff (excluding casual professional staff and sessional academic staff)
 - the staff member's period of service and salary as at the date on which the
 resignation or termination of service became effective.
for staff (excluding casual professional staff and sessional academic
        staff) who have worked different hours during the period of service -
        the actual equivalent full-time years of service and the full-time rate
        of salary at the date of ceasing employment.
For example, where a staff member has served for ten (10) years during which time the staff member
              was employed for eight (8) years on a full-time basis and two (2) years on a 50% part-time basis
              - the actual service is equivalent to nine (9) years full-time service, therefore, the staff member
          would be paid in lieu of service at 0.9 of the full-time salary.
for casual professional staff and sessional academic staff, or for
        staff who have performed some casual work as part of their period of
        employment, the long service leave entitlement due for the period of
      casual / sessional employment will be calculated in accordance with B/6.4.2(c).
Top 
6.4.8 Recognition of previous service for the purposes of long service leave entitlements 
Previous service from related employment will be recognised for staff appointed on an on-going or
  fixed-term basis for purposes of long service leave credits. This applies to staff who have commenced
  appointment at the University within three (3) calendar months of leaving the previous employer. Related
  employment will be determined by the Human Resources Director and will include employment at another
  Australian university or public sector agency.
Professional staff
For professional staff who have served less than ten (10) years prior service:
Where a staff member has received no payment by a previous employer for accrued long service leave
    or no leave has been taken, the University will grant up to five (5) years credit for the purpose of
  calculating long service leave entitlements.
For example, for a staff member who has served six (6) years service at a previous employer, five
    (5) years of that service will contribute to the long service leave entitlement and then the staff
    member can take long service leave after serving five (5) years at QUT. In this example, after serving
    five (5) years service at QUT, the staff member will be entitled to take long service leave accumulated
  for a total ten (10) years service, that is, sixty-five (65) days.
Academic staff
For Academic staff who have served less than ten (10) years prior service:
Where a staff member has received no payment by a previous employer for accrued long service leave
    or no leave has been taken, all relevant service will be recognised by the University for the purpose
    of calculating long service leave entitlements.
For example, a staff member who has served six (6) years service at a previous employer, can take
    long service leave after serving four (4) years at QUT. In this example, the staff member will be entitled
    to take long service leave accumulated for a total ten (10) years service, that is, sixty-five (65)
  days.
Staff with more than ten years prior service
For all staff (academic and professional) who have served more than ten (10) years prior
  service:
Where a staff member has received payment by a previous employer for accrued long service
      leave or long service leave has been taken, the University will grant pro-rata long service leave
    after the staff member has been employed at the University (QUT) for a minimum of three (3) years.
For example, a staff member who has served more than ten (10) years service at a previous employer, can
    take long service leave after serving three (3) years at QUT. In this example, the staff member will
    be entitled to take accumulated long service leave for a total of three (3) years service, that is, nineteen
    and one half (19.5) days.
Top 
Related Documents 
MOPP B/6.1 Staff leave
MOPP Appendix 3 – Schedule of Authorities and Delegations
QUT Enterprise Bargaining Agreement (Academic Staff)
QUT Enterprise Bargaining Agreement (Professional
Staff)
QUT Employee Collective Agreement (Senior Staff) 2009-2012
Top 
Modification History 
Date
Sections
Source
Details
  04.08.08
  B/6.4.6
  Director, Governance  Services
  Editorial amendment to  remove reference to prior dates relating to accrual of long service leave
17.11.05
All
Vice-Chancellor
New policy
Top 
    Chapter A | Chapter B | Chapter C | Chapter D | Chapter E | Chapter F | Chapter G | Chapter H | Chapter I | Appendices | Protocol for MOPP Policy | Recent Updates
    QUT Home | MOPP Home
    CRICOS No. 00213J
    Privacy | Copyright | Accessibility
    Last modified 12-May-2010
    Contact us | Feedback | Disclaimer
