QUT | MOPP | B/6.2 Recreation Leave
            QUT&nbsp;Home
          Contact&nbsp;us
          Search
      MOPP Home
      Protocol for MOPP Policy
      Recent Updates
      B/6.2 Recreation Leave
Chapters
A - Governance/Organisation
B - Human Resources
C - Learning/Teaching
D - Research/Development
E - Student Administration
F - Information Management
G - Financial Management
H - Physical Facilities
I - International/Community
MOPP Appendices
MOPP Protocol
MOPP Updates
[Print-friendly version]
Contact OfficerPrincipal HR Officer (Policy and Workplace Relations) 
Approval Date17/11/2005 
Approval AuthorityVice-Chancellor 
Date of Next Review01/07/2009 
6.2.1 Recreation leave - professional staff 
6.2.2 Calculation of recreation leave payment - professional staff 
6.2.3 Recreation leave - academic staff 
6.2.4 Recreation leave - senior staff 
Related Documents 
Modification History 
6.2.1 Recreation leave - professional staff 
(a) Entitlement
Professional staff members (excluding casuals and continuous shift workers)  are entitled to four &nbsp;weeks recreation  leave (exclusive of public holidays) after 12 months of service. Staff employed  on continuous shift work are entitled to five weeks recreation leave after 12 months  of service. &lsquo;Continuous shift work' occurs where the work is required to be  performed 24 hours a day, seven days per week and rostered accordingly. 
Part-time staff members accrue recreation leave on a proportional basis. A
  staff member with a fixed term appointment will take accrued recreation leave
  during the term of their appointment unless otherwise agreed by the authorising
officer.
(b) Application and approval
A staff member must apply for recreation leave either in writing or on-line
  and must provide timely notice of the required period of leave. A record of
  leave taken will be kept by the Human Resources Department. Recreation leave
  is approved in accordance with the 
Schedule
of Authorities and Delegations
(c) Taking of leave
Staff are entitled to take their leave in unbroken periods
  and can accrue up to two years recreation leave entitlement. The authorising
  officer may direct a staff member to take leave at any time after accruing
  this amount.
(d) Leave entitlement on termination of employment
Recreation leave entitlements will be paid on termination of employment, unless
required as payment in lieu of notice on resignation of a staff member.
(e) Leave entitlement for staff transferring  to another position within the University
Accrued recreation leave entitlements will not be  affected if a staff member moves from one position within the University to  another position. Payment in lieu of accrued recreation leave only applies if a  staff member terminates their employment with the University with no clear  intent to be re-employed by the University.
(f) Sickness while on recreation leave
Staff who become ill for three or more consecutive working days during
  a period of recreation leave may claim sick leave in lieu of recreation leave
by submitting a medical certificate for the period of the illness.
Top 
6.2.2 Calculation of recreation leave payment - professional staff 
(a) All staff (excluding shift workers)
Recreation leave payments will be calculated as the ordinary salary or wage
  for the period of recreation leave (excluding weekend / public holiday penalty
rates) plus a further 17.5% loading of this amount.
(b) Staff employed on shift work
Recreation leave payments for professional staff employed on shift work will
be calculated in one of the following ways, whichever is the greater amount:
(i) The salary payable for work in ordinary time according to the staff member's
  roster or projected roster over the period of recreation leave, including Saturday,
Sunday or public holiday shifts.
An amount calculated in this way will include applicable shift penalties and
weekend / public holiday penalty rates and on-call rates.
(ii) The staff member's ordinary salary or pay (excluding shift premiums and
  weekend public holiday penalty and on-call rates), plus a further 17.5% loading
  calculated on four weeks ordinary salary. 
Top 
6.2.3 Recreation leave - academic staff 
(a) Entitlement
In each calendar year academic staff, excluding  sessional staff,
  will accrue recreation leave to a maximum of 20 working days. Academic
staff recreation leave entitlements are recorded and managed by the local area.
Part-time academic staff members accrue recreation leave on a proportional
basis.
All recreation leave will be exclusive of public holidays.
An academic staff member with a fixed-term appointment cannot accrue leave
  beyond the period of their appointment. If, during an appointment of less than
  one year, there has been no opportunity for the staff member to take all recreation
  leave, the staff member will, on expiry of the appointment, be paid the cash
equivalent of the recreation leave.
(b) Leave loading
Recreation leave loading will be paid in the last pay period in December in
  each year. Recreation leave loading payments for all staff members will be
  calculated as 17.5% of the ordinary salary for the leave accrued during the
year.
(c) Taking of leave - deeming
All recreation leave accrued during any calendar year will be deemed to have
  been taken by the end of the second week of February in the following year,
  subject to clause (e) below. The head of school must ensure staff have the
  opportunity to take recreation leave of 20 days consecutively and
  staff will notify the head of school when they intend taking recreation leave.
(d) Notification of Leave
Staff who do not wish to accrue recreation leave beyond 20 days will
not be required to apply for recreation leave.
(e) Leave accrual beyond 20 days
Academic staff may, with the approval of the executive dean of faculty, accrue
  leave up to a maximum of 40 days. Such accrual shall not be unreasonably
  withheld (eg combining PDP with recreation leave). Application to accrue leave
  shall normally be provided by the end of November and include details of when
the accrued leave is to be taken.
(f) Leave entitlement on termination
If an academic staff member ceases employment at the University
  prior to the second week of February in any year, the staff member will not
  receive any cash equivalent for leave accrued since January in the previous
  year.
Where the University terminates the employment of a staff member through redundancy
  or voluntary early retirement, the staff member will be encouraged to take
  any accrued recreation leave, before ceasing employment. In such circumstances,
  if the staff member's supervisor agrees that it is not possible for such accrued
  leave to be taken before ceasing employment, the staff member will receive
a cash equivalent for leave accrued since January in the previous year.
All staff members who cease employment with the University will receive a
pro-rata payment for leave loading.
(g) Leave entitlement for staff  transferring to another position within the University
Accrued recreation leave entitlements will not be  affected if a staff member moves from one position within the University to  another position. Payment in lieu of accrued recreation leave only applies if a  staff member terminates their employment with the University with no clear  intent to be re-employed by the University.
(h) Sickness while on recreation leave
Staff who become ill for three or more consecutive working days during
  a period of recreation leave may claim sick leave in lieu of recreation leave
by submitting a medical certificate for the period of the illness.
Top 
6.2.4 Recreation leave - senior staff 
Provisions for recreation leave for senior staff (including entitlements,
  calculation of leave, etc) are detailed in the 
QUT Employee Collective Agreement (Senior Staff) 2009-2012
Top 
Related Documents 
MOPP B/6.1 Staff leave
MOPP Appendix 3 – Schedule of Authorities and Delegations
QUT Enterprise Bargaining Agreement (Academic Staff)
QUT Enterprise Bargaining Agreement (Professional Staff)
QUT Employee Collective Agreement (Senior Staff) 2009-2012
Top 
Modification History 
Date
Sections
Source
Details
  20.08.08
  B/6.2.1, B/6.2.3
   Vice-Chancellor
  Revised policy to  clarify arrangements relating to staff transferring to another position within  the University
17.11.05
All
Vice-Chancellor
New policy
Top 
    Chapter A | Chapter B | Chapter C | Chapter D | Chapter E | Chapter F | Chapter G | Chapter H | Chapter I | Appendices | Protocol for MOPP Policy | Recent Updates
    QUT Home | MOPP Home
    CRICOS No. 00213J
    Privacy | Copyright | Accessibility
    Last modified 12-May-2010
    Contact us | Feedback | Disclaimer
