QUT | MOPP | B/6.8 Other types of leave
            QUT&nbsp;Home
          Contact&nbsp;us
          Search
      MOPP Home
      Protocol for MOPP Policy
      Recent Updates
      B/6.8 Other types of leave
Chapters
A - Governance/Organisation
B - Human Resources
C - Learning/Teaching
D - Research/Development
E - Student Administration
F - Information Management
G - Financial Management
H - Physical Facilities
I - International/Community
MOPP Appendices
MOPP Protocol
MOPP Updates
[Print-friendly version]
Contact OfficerPrincipal HR Officer (Policy and Workplace Relations) 
Approval Date18/04/2009 
Approval AuthorityVice-Chancellor 
Date of Next Review30/04/2012 
6.8.1 Application 
6.8.2 Defence Reserve Forces leave 
6.8.3 Jury service leave 
6.8.4 Special leave for State Emergency Service call out 
6.8.5 Workplace relations training leave 
Related Documents 
Modification History 
6.8.1 Application 
The following policies relating to leave for Defence Reserve Forces, jury  service, State Emergency Service call-out and workplace relations training  apply to academic and professional staff.
Provisions relating to leave for Defence Reserve  Forces, jury service and State Emergency Service call-out for senior staff are  detailed in the QUT Employee Collective Agreement (Senior Staff) 2009-2012.
  Top 
6.8.2 Defence Reserve Forces leave 
Staff who formally advise the University of their enlistment in the Defence  Reserve Forces may be granted leave on full pay to attend Navy, Army or Air Force  peacetime training or deployment, in accordance with the Australian Federal  Government&rsquo;s recommendations as follows:
Type  of Duty
Entitlement
Reservists  undertaking Defence service
4  weeks (20 working or 28 calendar days) paid leave per annum
Reservist  required to attend recruit / initial employment training 
Additional  2 weeks (10 working or 14 calendar days) paid leave during first year of  defence service
QUT will not require a Reservist to pay  their Reserve salary to the University, and will consider all approved Defence  Reserve Forces leave (of less than six months) as continuous service for the  purpose of leave accrual, superannuation, and other approved remuneration  package benefits.
QUT will make reasonable attempts to keep  Reservists undertaking defence service abreast of relative developments and  workplace changes in their absence.
An application for defence leave will be  submitted to the supervisor for approval providing timely notice of at least four  weeks wherever possible.
Top 
6.8.3 Jury service leave 
Jury service leave is granted on full pay or without pay at the option of the staff member. An application
  for jury service leave will be submitted to the supervisor for approval. 
A staff member who elects to:
take leave without pay, is allowed to retain all jury fees; or
apply for jury service leave on full pay, must pay jury fees to the University.
Any such cheques issued in the staff member's name should be signed over to the University (via the
University cashier) by the staff member signing the back of the cheque and authorising payment to the
University.  The staff member is required to produce a certificate or other suitable evidence from
  the Sheriff's Office indicating the number of appearances, cases involved and payments received.
Top 
6.8.4 Special leave for State Emergency Service call out 
A staff member who is a member of the State Emergency Service can take paid leave during an emergency
  declared by authority of the 
Counter Disaster Organisation Act,
or at the discretion of the
Human Resources Director. Evidence of membership is required on joining the service.
The supervisor should be advised as soon as possible when the staff member will be absent from duty
  as a result of attending such emergencies.
Prior formal application and approval for leave are not required to attend such emergencies at short
  notice if prior arrangements have been approved by the authorising officer.
Top 
6.8.5 Workplace relations training leave 
Academic and professional staff (excluding sessional academic and casual  professional staff) may be granted five days per calendar year to attend  workplace relations training or similar courses or seminars. The authorising  officer will consider requests for more than five days leave per year. 
Workplace relations training leave will be granted at the ordinary rate of pay.
The approval of workplace relations training leave is subject to the operation of the work area not
  being unduly affected or inconvenienced and the staff member applying at least two weeks prior
  to the commencement of the course. The University will not be liable for any expenses associated with
  a staff member's attendance at workplace relations training courses.
Top 
Related Documents 
MOPP B/6.1 Staff leave
MOPP Appendix 3 – Schedule of Authorities and Delegations
QUT Enterprise Bargaining Agreement (Academic Staff)
QUT Enterprise Bargaining Agreement (Professional Staff)
QUT Employee Collective Agreement (Senior Staff) 2009-2012
Top 
Modification History 
Date
Sections
Source
Details
   18.04.09
   B/6.8.2
   Vice-Chancellor
  Policy revised   in accordance with Federal Government provisions
17.11.05
All
Vice-Chancellor
New policy
Top 
    Chapter A | Chapter B | Chapter C | Chapter D | Chapter E | Chapter F | Chapter G | Chapter H | Chapter I | Appendices | Protocol for MOPP Policy | Recent Updates
    QUT Home | MOPP Home
    CRICOS No. 00213J
    Privacy | Copyright | Accessibility
    Last modified 12-May-2010
    Contact us | Feedback | Disclaimer
