QUT | MOPP | B/6.9 Reduced working year scheme
            QUT&nbsp;Home
          Contact&nbsp;us
          Search
      MOPP Home
      Protocol for MOPP Policy
      Recent Updates
      B/6.9 Reduced working year scheme
Chapters
A - Governance/Organisation
B - Human Resources
C - Learning/Teaching
D - Research/Development
E - Student Administration
F - Information Management
G - Financial Management
H - Physical Facilities
I - International/Community
MOPP Appendices
MOPP Protocol
MOPP Updates
[Print-friendly version]
Contact OfficerPrincipal HR Advisor (Policy and Workplace Relations) 
Approval Date21/12/2010 
Approval AuthorityVice-Chancellor 
Date of Next Review01/03/2014 
6.9.1 Policy principle 
6.9.2 Application 
6.9.3 Approval 
6.9.4 Entitlement 
6.9.5 Conditions 
Related Documents 
Modification History 
6.9.1 Policy principle 
The reduced working year scheme is intended to provide flexibility in employment for staff members
  with family responsibilities and for staff who wish to extend their leave options for personal reasons.
Top 
6.9.2 Application 
This policy applies to professional and academic staff (excluding casual professional
and sessional academic staff).
For academic staff, the teaching load undertaken across the year will be at the appropriate proportion
  of that of a staff member in an equivalent area who is working for the full fifty-two (52) weeks.
Provisions relating to a reduced working year for senior staff are detailed in the 
QUT Employee Collective Agreement (Senior Staff) 2009-2012
Top 
6.9.3 Approval 
Staff members must apply to their supervisor for agreement to work a reduced working year. Staff participation
  in the scheme is optional and at the request of the staff member. Approval to participate in the scheme
  will depend on balancing operational requirements with increased flexibility options and choice for
staff. Performance decisions will be based on the proportion of work appropriate to the position.
Top 
6.9.4 Entitlement 
Under the reduced working year scheme, within a twelve (12) month period, a staff member is entitled
  to have up to eight (8) weeks paid leave in addition to the normal four (4) weeks recreation leave,
  with a commensurate reduction in total salary rate for the twelve (12) month period. The additional
  leave (up to eight (8) weeks) provided to the staff member under the reduced working year scheme will
not attract leave loading.
Top 
6.9.5 Conditions 
(a) Participation in the reduced working year scheme is for a period of one (1) year and is to be
  renegotiated annually by the staff member and their supervisor (usually at the beginning of the year).
(b) An application to participate in the reduced working year scheme will be treated as an application
  for part-time appointment. Staff participating in the scheme will receive a reduced proportion of their
  annual salary, to be paid in fortnightly instalments.
(c) A staff member's participation in the reduced working year scheme will be recorded in writing
  and a copy of this record will be maintained on the staff member's personal file maintained by the
  Human Resources Department.
(d) All leave entitlements which accrue during the term of a staff member's participation in the reduced
  working year scheme are paid at the staff member's reduced proportional rate of salary.
(e) The four (4) weeks recreation leave and up to eight (8) weeks additional leave provided under
  the reduced working year scheme, must be taken during the period for which agreement to participate
  in the scheme has been reached. The staff member may also request to take leave in minimum blocks of
  one (1) week during the year subject to the approval of the supervisor. For example, the staff member
  may request an additional six (6) weeks to the four (4) weeks recreation leave entitlement, totalling
  ten (10) weeks in one year, but nominate to take the leave in blocks of one (1) week, three (3) weeks,
five (5) weeks and one (1) week throughout the year.
It is generally expected that the staff member and the supervisor will agree on the time of taking
leave at the commencement of the twelve (12) month period. Where a staff member is, for reasons beyond
his/her control, unable to take the full leave within the agreed period, the staff member will not
forfeit the accrued leave but seek to have the leave deferred to be taken at a later stage. If the
supervisor and the staff member agree that such accrued leave cannot be deferred, the leave will
  be paid out.
(f) The timing of the normal four (4) weeks recreation leave entitlement (ie that portion which does
  attract leave loading) will be recorded and processed by the Human Resources Department in the usual
manner.
(g) All forms of leave accrued by a staff member prior to converting to the reduced working year scheme
  will be balanced as at the date immediately prior to converting to the scheme and will be available
  to the staff member at the rate at which it accrued.
(h) During the period a staff member participates in the reduced working year scheme, their superannuation
  contributions will reduce to the level based on their actual salary for that year. If a staff member
  wishes to maintain superannuation contributions at a notional full-time rate they will be responsible
  for making the necessary arrangements, through the University's Superannuation Officer (Human Resources
  Department), and for maintaining both the notional full-time rate for the staff member's contribution
  and the University's contribution.
Top 
Related Documents 
MOPP 
 B/6.2 Recreation Leave
 MOPP Appendix 3 – Schedule of Authorities and Delegations
 QUT Enterprise Agreement (Academic Staff)
QUT Enterprise Agreement (Professional Staff)
QUT Employee Collective Agreement (Senior Staff) 2009-2012
Top 
Modification History 
    Date
    Sections
    Source
    Details
   21.12.10
   All
  Human Resources Department
  Periodic review - Minor editorial changes only
    17.11.05
    All
    Vice-Chancellor
    New policy
Top 
    Chapter A | Chapter B | Chapter C | Chapter D | Chapter E | Chapter F | Chapter G | Chapter H | Chapter I | Appendices | Protocol for MOPP Policy | Recent Updates
    QUT Home | MOPP Home
    CRICOS No. 00213J
    Privacy | Copyright | Accessibility
    Last modified 17-Feb-2011
    Contact us | Feedback | Disclaimer
