QUT | MOPP | B/6.3 Sick leave
            QUT&nbsp;Home
          Contact&nbsp;us
          Search
      MOPP Home
      Protocol for MOPP Policy
      Recent Updates
      B/6.3 Sick leave
Chapters
A - Governance/Organisation
B - Human Resources
C - Learning/Teaching
D - Research/Development
E - Student Administration
F - Information Management
G - Financial Management
H - Physical Facilities
I - International/Community
MOPP Appendices
MOPP Protocol
MOPP Updates
[Print-friendly version]
Contact OfficerManager, Policy Planning and Workplace Relations, HR 
Approval Date17/11/2005 
Approval AuthorityVice-Chancellor 
Date of Next Review01/07/2009 
6.3.1 Application 
6.3.2 Entitlement  
6.3.3 Application for sick leave 
6.3.4 Sick leave without pay 
6.3.5 Recurring absences 
Related Documents 
Modification History 
6.3.1 Application 
This policy applies to all academic and professional staff (excluding casual
professional and sessional academic staff).
Provisions relating to sick leave for senior staff are detailed in the 
QUT Employee Collective Agreement (Senior Staff) 2009-2012
Top 
6.3.2 Entitlement  
Academic and professional staff (excluding casual / sessional staff) are entitled
  to ten (10) cumulative days sick leave per annum. Part-time staff members accrue
  sick leave on a proportional basis.
For staff appointed for at least twelve
    (12) months, sick leave is available twelve (12) months in advance for the
    first year of employment.
If a fixed-term staff member is appointed to an ongoing position or is appointed
  to a further fixed-term position, sick leave from the preceding appointment
  transfers to the new appointment providing the break in employment does not
  exceed three (3) months.
Where a staff member has exhausted all sick leave accrued, they may be granted
additional paid sick leave in advance of an entitlement
A staff member who is absent due to illness for more
  than three (3) consecutive working days must provide a medical certificate
  specifying the period or approximate period of absence.
Top 
6.3.3 Application for sick leave 
A staff member absent from work through illness will advise the supervisor
  as soon as practicable on the day of absence, specifying the anticipated period
  of absence. The staff member will submit an application for sick leave either
in writing or online to the supervisor.
Top 
6.3.4 Sick leave without pay 
Staff who have used their full entitlement of sick leave may be granted sick
leave without pay by the authorising officer.
The first three (3) months of sick leave without pay are recognised as service
  in terms of accumulating long service, recreation and sick leave. The staff
  member's increment date does not change. For more than three (3) months, the
  staff member's increment date is adjusted by a period equal to the period of
  leave in excess of three (3) months and long service, recreation and sick leave
cease accumulating.
Public holidays are counted as leave without pay if staff are on sick leave
without pay on both days either side of the holiday.
Top 
6.3.5 Recurring absences 
Where a staff member has had a pattern of recurring absences on sick leave,
  the authorising officer will have the right to discuss the matter with the
  staff member and advise the staff member that, for any absences on sick leave
  for the following six (6) months, the staff member may be required to provide
a medical certificate.
Top 
Related Documents 
MOPP B/6.1 Staff leave
MOPP Appendix 3 – Schedule of Authorities and Delegations
QUT Enterprise Bargaining Agreement (Academic Staff)
QUT Enterprise Bargaining Agreement (Professional Staff)
QUT Employee Collective Agreement (Senior Staff) 2009-2012
Top 
Modification History 
Date
Sections
Source
Details
17.11.05
All
Vice-Chancellor
New policy
Top 
    Chapter A | Chapter B | Chapter C | Chapter D | Chapter E | Chapter F | Chapter G | Chapter H | Chapter I | Appendices | Protocol for MOPP Policy | Recent Updates
    QUT Home | MOPP Home
    CRICOS No. 00213J
    Privacy | Copyright | Accessibility
    Last modified 12-May-2010
    Contact us | Feedback | Disclaimer
