QUT | MOPP | B/6.6 Parental leave
            QUT&nbsp;Home
          Contact&nbsp;us
          Search
      MOPP Home
      Protocol for MOPP Policy
      Recent Updates
      B/6.6 Parental leave
Chapters
A - Governance/Organisation
B - Human Resources
C - Learning/Teaching
D - Research/Development
E - Student Administration
F - Information Management
G - Financial Management
H - Physical Facilities
I - International/Community
MOPP Appendices
MOPP Protocol
MOPP Updates
[Print-friendly version]
Contact OfficerPrincipal HR Officer (Policy and Workplace Relations) 
Approval Date17/11/2005 
Approval AuthorityVice-Chancellor 
Date of Next Review01/07/2009 
6.6.1 Application 
6.6.2 Parental leave 
6.6.3 Maternity leave 
6.6.4 Partner leave 
6.6.5 Adoption Leave 
6.6.6 Parental leave for casual professional and sessional academic staff 
6.6.7 General conditions of parental leave 
6.6.8 Returning to work 
Related Documents 
Modification History 
6.6.1 Application 
This policy applies to academic and professional staff.
Provisions for parental leave for senior staff are detailed in the 
QUT Employee Collective Agreement (Senior Staff) 2009-2012
Top 
6.6.2 Parental leave 
Parental leave consists of maternity leave, adoption leave and partner leave.
The maximum period of parental leave is 52 weeks.
The University will not refuse employment or dismiss a staff member, or take any other action that
  disadvantages a staff member on the grounds of pregnancy, possible pregnancy, a request for parental
  or maternity leave, or a possible request for parental or maternity leave.
Top 
6.6.3 Maternity leave 
Maternity leave is granted to eligible staff who give birth to a new child. Maternity leave is an
  individual entitlement and there is no restriction on the number of times a staff member may take maternity
  leave. Maternity leave can be made up of paid maternity leave and unpaid parental leave subject to
a staff member's eligibility.
(a) Paid maternity leave
Eligible staff (excluding casual professional and sessional academic staff)
with:
12 months prior service are entitled to  26 weeks paid maternity leave (paid at the       relevant service fraction, refer to B/6.6.3(j) below);
between nine and 12 months prior service are entitled to 12 weeks paid
      maternity leave.
Staff with less than nine months prior service are not entitled to paid maternity leave.
(b) Part-time staff
Staff employed on a part-time basis are eligible for maternity leave paid on a proportional basis.
(c) Unpaid leave
In addition to paid maternity leave, staff who become the primary carer of a new child are entitled
  to unpaid parental leave so that the total period of parental leave is no more than 52
weeks.
Staff who are not entitled to paid maternity leave are entitled to 52 weeks unpaid parental
leave.
(d) 
Method of payment - maternity leave
The salary received for paid maternity leave is the normal salary paid to the staff member immediately
prior to the commencement of maternity leave. This excludes higher duties allowance.
A staff member may elect to take the paid portion of leave:
as fortnightly pay (on full or half pay); or
as a single payment at the commencement of maternity leave
All leave accruals during a period of paid leave at half pay will be calculated on a proportional
basis.
(e) 
Application for maternity leave
A staff member will notify their supervisor with at least 12 weeks written notice of their
  intention to take maternity leave. The supervisor will inform the authorising officer of the staff
member's intention to take maternity leave.
An application must be submitted no later than four weeks prior to the intended date of commencing
  maternity leave unless the staff member elects to take the paid portion as a lump sum, in which case
six  weeks notice is required.
Upon approval from the authorising officer the staff member will submit medical documentation to the
  Human Resources Department for processing.
(f) 
Commencement of leave
A staff member may commence maternity leave at any stage of a pregnancy subject to the medically certified
  expected date of birth being included in the period of paid leave and the leave being taken in one
continuous period.
(g) Minimum period of leave
Staff on maternity leave are normally required to remain absent for a minimum period of six  weeks
  after the actual date of birth. If a medical certificate of fitness is provided, the staff member may
return to duty earlier than six  weeks after the birth.
(h) Other leave
It is not intended that sick leave will be used to duplicate, replace or extend maternity leave. However,
  prior to taking maternity leave, sick leave, personal leave or recreation leave can be used for medical
checkups or illness directly related to the pregnancy.
(i) Transfer to suitable position
Where a staff member is pregnant and, in the opinion of a registered medical practitioner, illness
  or risks arising out of the pregnancy or hazards connected with the work assigned to the staff member
  make it inadvisable for the staff member to continue at her present work, the staff member will, if
  the authorising officer deems it practicable, be transferred to a suitable position at the same rate
of pay and on the same conditions until the commencement of maternity leave.
If the transfer to a suitable position is not practicable the staff member may elect, or the authorising
officer may require the staff member, to commence maternity leave.
(j)
Calculation of paid maternity leave
The calculation of paid maternity leave is as follows:
Category of staff
Calculation of entitlement
Staff whose fraction of employment has not changed and  who have not taken any approved leave without pay (refer B/6.6.5) in the year  prior to taking paid maternity leave 
The staff member's salary (full-time or part-time) at the rate applicable on the last pay
          period immediately prior to commencing paid maternity leave
Staff who, in the year prior to taking paid maternity leave:
  worked different hours either due to a mix of  full-time and part-time service or different part-time appointments, or
  took  a period of approved leave without pay (refer B/6.6.5) exceeding 10 working  days
The average service fraction expressed:
in actual equivalent full-time months of paid service for the 12 month
            period prior to commencing paid maternity leave; and
full-time rate of salary at the rate applicable on the last pay period immediately
              prior to commencing paid maternity leave.
For example, a staff member in the 12 months prior to commencing paid maternity leave
          was employed for four months on a full-time basis and eight  months on a 50% part-time
          basis. The actual service is equivalent to eight months full-time, therefore the staff
          member will receive paid maternity leave at 0.66 of the full-time salary.
This does not apply to staff who have been required to change their mode of employment (full-time
          or part-time) due to a medical condition directly related to their pregnancy as diagnosed by
          a duly qualified medical practitioner.
(k) Special circumstances
After 20 weeks of pregnancy have elapsed, the staff member shall be entitled to the 12 weeks paid maternity leave (if the staff member is entitled to paid leave) regardless of the outcome
  of the pregnancy, for example, if a pregnancy terminates by miscarriage or still birth. If a pregnancy
  terminates before 20 weeks, the staff member can use other leave credits such as personal
  leave, sick leave and/or recreation leave.
Top 
6.6.4 Partner leave 
Partner leave comprises both short-term paid leave to be taken at the time of the birth of a child
  or adoption of a child, and long-term unpaid leave for staff who become the primary 
carer
for a new child.
Partner means spouse (including a former spouse, de facto spouse, former de facto spouse, same sex
  partner and former same sex partner) of the person who gives birth or, in the case of adoption leave,
of the person who is nominated as the primary carer.
(a) Paid leave
Eligible staff are entitled to paid partner leave to care for a new child provided that the staff
  member is not entitled to paid maternity leave.
Eligible staff (excluding casual professional and sessional academic staff)
with:
12 months prior service are entitled to five days leave paid on full salary;
between nine  and 12 months prior service are entitled to three  days leave
    paid on full salary.
Staff with less than nine months prior service are not entitled to paid partner leave.
Paid partner leave may be taken in separate periods of not less than one  day at a time, unless
otherwise agreed between the supervisor and staff member.
(b) Unpaid leave
In addition to paid partner leave, staff who become the primary 
carer of a new child
  are entitled to unpaid parental leave so that the total period of leave is no more than 52
weeks.
Staff who are not entitled to paid partner leave are entitled to 52 weeks unpaid parental
  leave.
(c) Application for leave
A staff member will notify their supervisor with at least four  weeks written notice of their intention
  to take five days paid leave or at least 12 weeks' written notice of their intention to
  take unpaid leave. The supervisor will inform the authorising officer of the staff member's intention
  to take partner leave.
An application must be submitted no later than four weeks prior to the intended date of commencing
  partner leave.
Upon approval from the authorising officer the staff member must submit medical documentation to the
Human Resources Department for processing. 
Top 
6.6.5 Adoption Leave 
Adoption leave is granted to eligible staff who become the primary carer for a new child and comprises
  both paid leave and unpaid leave.
For adoption, long-term fostering or guardianship in respect of a new child,
  eligible staff (excluding casual professional and sessional academic staff)
  are entitled to either paid maternity leave or partner leave, and unpaid parental
  leave, consistent with B/6.6.3 and B/6.6.4 above. Upon successful adoption,
  this leave may be used for any event directly related to the placement of the
child.
Where the placement of a child for adoption with a staff member does not proceed or continue, the
  staff member will notify the University immediately and the University will nominate a time not exceeding
  four  weeks from receipt of notification for the staff member's return to work.
Top 
6.6.6 Parental leave for casual professional and sessional academic staff 
An eligible casual or sessional staff member is entitled to a total of 52 weeks unpaid parental leave. An eligible casual or sessional staff member
  means a casual professional or sessional academic employed on a regular and
  systematic basis for a continuous period of employment for the period of at
least 12 months prior to commencement of parental leave.
Top 
6.6.7 General conditions of parental leave 
(a)
Taking of unpaid parental leave
Unpaid parental leave may commence before the medically certified date of birth, date of adoption or
  commencement of a long-term fostering or guardianship arrangement and must be completed within two years
  after the actual date of birth, adoption or commencement of the long-term fostering or guardianship arrangement.
  Parental leave will normally be available as one continuous period. Shorter periods of leave may be available
  in special circumstances at the discretion of the authorising officer.
Unpaid parental leave is an individual entitlement and there is no restriction on the number of times
a staff member may take such parental leave as the primary carer of a new child.
(b) General conditions
If a staff member applies for a period of paid maternity leave or unpaid parental leave for a subsequent
  new child whilst already on unpaid parental leave, the new period of leave supersedes the initial period
  of leave granted and will not be in addition to that leave.
In extenuating circumstances, alternative arrangements may be mutually agreed upon in writing between
  the staff member, the Human Resources Director and the authorising officer concerned.
A public holiday that falls within the staff member's paid portion of leave will be paid in addition
  to the period of paid parental leave.
Where a staff member's increment date falls during a period of unpaid parental leave and for unpaid
leave in excess of one month, the increment date will be changed by the total period of unpaid
leave.
Long service leave, recreation leave and sick leave will only accrue for the first 10 working
  days of unpaid parental leave.
The University is not required to extend a fixed-term appointment solely by reason of a period of
  maternity leave or unpaid parental leave.
Eligible staff may apply for all or part of accrued recreation leave or long service leave to be taken
  in addition to or in place of parental leave. Sick leave cannot be used during the period of unpaid
parental leave or to duplicate, replace or extend that leave.
Following a period of parental leave a staff member may apply for a further period of leave without
  pay (see 
B/6.5
). If there is no break between the first period of parental leave and the second subsequent
  period of leave this will be referred to as an extension of parental leave.
(c) Limit on two QUT staff members
Where two QUT staff members, who have been employed by the University for a minimum of 12
  months, share the primary care of a new child, the combined leave limit for both parents to share is
  52 weeks of which 26 weeks is paid leave. For example, one staff member can
  opt to take the leave for a portion of the 26 weeks paid leave and the other staff member
  can take paid leave for the remaining portion of that leave.
Top 
6.6.8 Returning to work 
A staff member will notify their supervisor of their intention to return to work after a period of
parental leave, at least four  weeks prior to the expiration of the leave.
A staff member will be entitled to the position which they held immediately before commencing parental
  leave. In the case of a staff member transferred to a suitable position, pursuant to B/6.6.3(i) above,
  the staff member will be entitled to return to the position held immediately before such transfer.
  Where this position no longer exists but there are other positions available which the staff member
  is qualified for and capable of performing, the staff member will be entitled to a position as nearly
comparable in status and pay to that of their former position.
The University will make every reasonable effort to provide flexible return to work options for staff
  members returning from parental leave, including part-time work. This may include part-time work for
  a period agreed between the staff member and supervisor, with the option of the staff member reverting
  to their former employment arrangement at the end of the agreed period.
Top 
Related Documents 
MOPP A/8.4 Equal opportunity 
and diversity policy
MOPP A/8.8 Child care and family responsibilities
MOPP B/6.1 Staff leave
MOPP Appendix 3 – Schedule of Authorities and Delegations
QUT Enterprise Bargaining Agreement (Academic
Staff)
QUT Enterprise Bargaining Agreement (Professional
Staff)
QUT Employee Collective Agreement (Senior Staff) 2009-2012
Human Resources Department website - Parental Leave at QUT  
Top 
Modification History 
Date
Sections
Source
Details
  20.08.08
  B/6.6.3
   Vice-Chancellor
  Revised policy to clarify maternity leave entitlement  following a period of leave without pay
17.11.05
All
Vice-Chancellor
New policy
Top 
    Chapter A | Chapter B | Chapter C | Chapter D | Chapter E | Chapter F | Chapter G | Chapter H | Chapter I | Appendices | Protocol for MOPP Policy | Recent Updates
    QUT Home | MOPP Home
    CRICOS No. 00213J
    Privacy | Copyright | Accessibility
    Last modified 12-May-2010
    Contact us | Feedback | Disclaimer
