QUT | MOPP | B/7.7 Workplace rehabilitation policy
            QUT&nbsp;Home
          Contact&nbsp;us
          Search
      MOPP Home
      Protocol for MOPP Policy
      Recent Updates
      B/7.7 Workplace rehabilitation policy
Chapters
A - Governance/Organisation
B - Human Resources
C - Learning/Teaching
D - Research/Development
E - Student Administration
F - Information Management
G - Financial Management
H - Physical Facilities
I - International/Community
MOPP Appendices
MOPP Protocol
MOPP Updates
[Print-friendly version]
Contact OfficerAssociate Director, HR Health and Safety Advisory Services 
Approval Date30/10/2009 
Approval AuthorityVice-Chancellor 
Date of Next Review01/11/2012 
7.7.1 Policy principles 
7.7.2 Rehabilitation process 
7.7.3 Conclusion of rehabilitation
7.7.4 Post-rehabilitation phase
Modification History
7.7.1 Policy principles  
QUT is committed to providing a workplace rehabilitation process for injured  staff members.
The aim of QUT's workplace rehabilitation process is to assist in the early  recovery of any staff member who has a work or non-work related injury or  illness with as little disruption as possible to the normal routine of both the  person and QUT (note, however, that aspects of this policy may apply to  work-related injury cases and not to injuries incurred elsewhere).Top
7.7.2 Rehabilitation process  
Workplace rehabilitation is a form of rehabilitation accredited by Q-COMP  and usually managed by QUT within the work area of an injured staff member.  Rehabilitation may incorporate a suitable duties program, which is a medically  supervised and graduated return to normal duties, usually for a maximum period  of three months. The duties are matched to the capabilities of the staff member and  are upgraded regularly according to their level of recovery and medical advice.
The roles and responsibilities of the various parties are outlined in  the Workers' Compensation and Rehabilitation information which  is available on the Human Resources website and in  most administrative sections of faculties/schools/departments.
The rehabilitation of an injured staff member will be monitored  regularly by WorkCover and the rehabilitation team, which includes their  supervisor, QUT's Rehabilitation and Return to Work Coordinator and the  treating medical practitioner. The progress of each case will be considered in  relation to medical prognosis, program goals and timeliness.
Usually, rehabilitation programs will not extend beyond three months without  an extensive reassessment of the case and its progress to date, including  consultation with and advice from any or all of the stakeholders.
Top 
7.7.3 Conclusion of rehabilitation 
Rehabilitation will conclude when the injured staff member resumes all the  prescribed duties for the hours to which they were appointed, or meets any of  the following criteria:
  is considered to gain minimal or no further benefit from continued rehabilitation; 
  fails to give written permission for the  Rehabilitation and Return to Work Coordinator to gain access to information from the treating medical practitioner (for non work related injuries); 
  fails to comply with the recommendations made by the rehabilitation team; 
  withdraws from the program (which will impact on the staff member's compensation claim status). 
In the event that the staff member is assessed as being unable to return to  work in the former position (or in a modified position acceptable to all  parties), a number of alternative administrative arrangements may be discussed  with the injured staff member. These include, but are not limited to, entering  a post rehabilitation phase, accessing Superannuation Temporary Incapacity  Benefits, or retiring on medical grounds.
Top 
7.7.4 Post-rehabilitation phase 
The post-rehabilitation phase commences when rehabilitation has concluded  within the criteria listed for conclusion of rehabilitation (see B/7.7.3 above).  In most workers' compensation cases, the worker's injury/illness would have  stabilised and the claim been finalised by WorkCover Queensland. In all cases, a medical opinion  confirms that the staff member cannot return to their original appointed  position.
It is expected that the time frame of the post-rehabilitation phase will be  from two to 12 weeks and commences with a written contract between QUT and  the worker which states the possible outcomes by a final date.
If the injured staff member is unable to return to their pre-injury position  there is no guarantee of a placement in a position within the University, as  appointments are made on merit and applicants must undergo the competitive  processes for recruitment and appointment described in section B/4 .
This means that some staff would continue on modified duties where  practicable, while others would use appropriate leave provisions or leave  without pay.
The assistance which can be offered includes some or all of the following:
  workshop assistance with preparing resumes and selection criteria; 
  workshop assistance with interview skills; 
  access to e-mail and QUT on-line job notifications; 
  if still working - negotiated release to training; 
  negotiated access to personal computer, photocopier, etc. 
The benefit of the above process is that the employer/staff member  relationship is retained while seeking alternative employment.
In a few cases termination on medical grounds may be the preferred or only  option. Also, the staff member's superannuation fund may have certain  provisions which can be accessed.
For others it may mean applying to Centrelink for assistance and further  guidance in finding appropriate employment.
Prior to the conclusion of the post rehabilitation phase, the staff member  may need to undergo a final medical assessment, depending on the circumstances.  Generally, QUT will fund the written report of such assessment.
If despite all efforts suitable employment is not available within QUT, the  post rehabilitation contract will conclude at the pre-arranged date.
Top 
Modification History 
Date
Sections
Source
Details
   30.10.09
   All
  Associate Director, HR Health and Safety Advisory Services
  Periodic review - minor editorial changes only
   04.06.07 
   All
  Human Resources Director
  Policy reviewed for accreditation  purposes (minor editorial changes only)
10.06.05
All
Registrar
Policy reviewed (no change required)
24.04.03
B/7.7.1
Associate Director, HR Health and Safety Advisory Services
Minor editorial changes
31.01.01
All
Human Resources Department
Updated
19.03.98
All
Registrar
Revised policy (endorsed by University Health and Safety Committee 19.2.98).
Top 
    Chapter A | Chapter B | Chapter C | Chapter D | Chapter E | Chapter F | Chapter G | Chapter H | Chapter I | Appendices | Protocol for MOPP Policy | Recent Updates
    QUT Home | MOPP Home
    CRICOS No. 00213J
    Privacy | Copyright | Accessibility
    Last modified 12-May-2010
    Contact us | Feedback | Disclaimer
