QUT | MOPP | B/7.5 Pre-retirement employment arrangements
            QUT&nbsp;Home
          Contact&nbsp;us
          Search
      MOPP Home
      Protocol for MOPP Policy
      Recent Updates
      B/7.5 Pre-retirement employment arrangements
Chapters
A - Governance/Organisation
B - Human Resources
C - Learning/Teaching
D - Research/Development
E - Student Administration
F - Information Management
G - Financial Management
H - Physical Facilities
I - International/Community
MOPP Appendices
MOPP Protocol
MOPP Updates
[Print-friendly version]
Contact OfficerPrincipal HR Advisor (Policy and Workplace Relations) 
Approval Date28/06/2010 
Approval AuthorityVice-Chancellor 
Date of Next Review01/07/2013 
7.5.1 Principles 
7.5.2 Eligibility 
7.5.3 Superannuation and other benefits 
7.5.4 Guidelines and conditions 
Related Documents 
Modification History 
7.5.1 Principles 
Eligible  staff have the opportunity to enter into retirement arrangements in order to  provide flexibility for staff planning their retirement and to support the  University in workforce planning.
A staff  member who is willing to commit to a retirement date may apply to enter into a  pre-retirement fixed-term appointment with the University.  Access to a pre-retirement fixed-term  appointment is not an entitlement and will be negotiated on a case by case  basis subject to the organisational needs of the University.
A  pre-retirement fixed-term appointment is one in which a staff member elects to  enter into a single non-renewable fixed-term appointment. This means an  individual, in their application, would request to change their current  appointment with the University, which may be an on-going appointment, to a  fixed-term appointment.
Once a  pre-retirement fixed-term appointment is entered into, the arrangements become  the staff members substantive employment terms and conditions.  These would be transferred with the staff  member to any new position taken up during the period of the pre-retirement  fixed-term appointment.
In return for opting for a pre-retirement fixed-term  appointment, the staff member shall receive a pre-retirement salary loading, negotiated on a case by  case basis, in  addition to their annual base salary. A staff members other terms and  conditions of employment, unless otherwise specified, remain the same.
Top 
7.5.2 Eligibility 
In  accordance with the 
Equal Opportunity Act  1984
there is no compulsory retirement age.
Retirement  for the purposes of this policy means the preservation age determined by the 
Superannuation Industry
(Supervision) Regulations 1994
as the  age at which benefits can be accessed.  For example, a staff member born before 1 July 1960 can access  superannuation benefits at 55 years of age.
A staff member may  apply for a pre-retirement fixed-term appointment if he/she will be eligible  for retirement on the expiration date of the pre-retirement fixed-term  appointment.
Top 
7.5.3 Superannuation and other benefits 
Entering  into a pre-retirement fixed-term appointment may alter an individual's  entitlement to superannuation and other benefits.
Consideration  of the impact on superannuation and other benefits, such as salary packaging, is  the responsibility of the staff member.  Staff should seek independent financial advice and may contact their  superannuation fund prior to committing to a pre-retirement fixed-term  appointment.
Top 
7.5.4 Guidelines and conditions 
(a) Application  and approval
A staff  member may apply for a single non-renewable pre-retirement fixed-term  appointment, by submitting a written proposal to their head of school / department.  Where the head of school / department  supports the request it should be submitted to the executive dean of faculty /  head of division for authorisation and approval.  The executive dean of faculty / head of division  will advise the Human Resources Director of the approval, in writing.
Further  information is available on the 
Human Resources website.
(b) Pre-retirement salary  loading
The  salary loading applicable to a pre-retirement fixed-term appointment is  expressed as a percentage of the staff member's base annual salary.
For members of UniSuper  Defined Benefit and Accumulation Plans, a pre-retirement salary loading will by  default be included as salary for superannuation purposes.&nbsp; A staff member may elect to opt out of this  arrangement in writing.
However,  QSuper will not accept a pre-retirement salary loading as a superannuable loading for the purposes of the QSuper Defined Benefit and Accumulation  Plans.
(c)  Part-time  employment
A staff member may apply to their head of school / department to convert to part-time employment as part of their pre-retirement fixed-term appointment.  The duties to be performed should be agreed  prior to the approval of the appointment. Leave entitlements will be pro-rated  accordingly.
Staff  considering this option should seek independent financial advice on the impact to existing superannuation, salary sacrifice and other benefits.
(d)  Leave
Recreation  leave, sick leave and long service leave will continue to accrue at the relevant rate during the period of the pre-retirement fixed-term appointment.
It is  recommended that all recreation leave be exhausted prior to the conclusion of the pre-retirement fixed-term appointment.
(e)  Performance management
The  University's Performance Planning and Review process (PPR) continues to apply  to the staff member's performance during the term of the pre-retirement  fixed-term appointment.
(f) Termination
A staff  member who enters into a pre-retirement fixed-term appointment is not entitled  to a redundancy, termination or early retirement payment at the cessation of  their pre-retirement fixed-term appointment.
A  pre-retirement fixed-term appointment can be terminated by
the expiry date of the fixed term appointment being reached
the resignation of the staff member before completion of the appointment
unsatisfactory performance
the University, but only in the case of serious misconduct in accordance with the relevant industrial instrument.
(g) Re-engagement  by the University
Staff  entering into a pre-retirement fixed-term appointment do so on the clear  understanding that they are terminating their employment with the University at  the cessation of the fixed-term appointment.
Re-engagement by the University will not be considered. This restriction includes engagement as an independent consultant or under a company name or partnership.
Top 
Related Documents 
MOPP  B/7.11 Superannuation
Human  Resources Department website
Top 
Modification History 
Date
Sections
Source
Details
  17.02.11
  7.5.4
  Human Resources Department
  Minor administrative change
  28.06.10
  All
  Principal HR Advisor (Policy and Workplace Relations)
  Periodic review - minor revisions only
  17.07.07
  B/7.5.1, B/7.5.4(b)
  Human Resources Director
  Minor amendment to clarify  superannuation contribution requirements
07.12.06
All
Vice-Chancellor
New policy (endorsed by  Vice-Chancellor's Advisory Committee 30.10.06 and Planning and Resources  Committee 20.11.06); rescinded former policy B/7.5 Retirement and voluntary  early retirement
Top 
    Chapter A | Chapter B | Chapter C | Chapter D | Chapter E | Chapter F | Chapter G | Chapter H | Chapter I | Appendices | Protocol for MOPP Policy | Recent Updates
    QUT Home | MOPP Home
    CRICOS No. 00213J
    Privacy | Copyright | Accessibility
    Last modified 16-Feb-2011
    Contact us | Feedback | Disclaimer
