QUT | MOPP | B/7.8 Incremental progression
            QUT&nbsp;Home
          Contact&nbsp;us
          Search
      MOPP Home
      Protocol for MOPP Policy
      Recent Updates
      B/7.8 Incremental progression
Chapters
A - Governance/Organisation
B - Human Resources
C - Learning/Teaching
D - Research/Development
E - Student Administration
F - Information Management
G - Financial Management
H - Physical Facilities
I - International/Community
MOPP Appendices
MOPP Protocol
MOPP Updates
[Print-friendly version]
Contact OfficerManager, Policy Planning and Workplace Relations, HR 
Approval Date17/11/2005 
Approval AuthorityVice-Chancellor 
Date of Next Review01/07/2009 
7.8.1 Incremental progression - academic staff 
7.8.2 Incremental progression - professional staff 
7.8.3 Accelerated incremental progression - academic and professional staff 
Related Documents 
Modification History 
7.8.1 Incremental progression - academic staff 
Incremental progression recognises a staff member's acquisition over time of additional skills, experience
  and knowledge and the increased contribution to the University which this should allow them to make.
It is envisaged that the majority of academic staff will proceed normally through their relevant incremental
  scale without interruption.
Application
Incremental progression is available for staff members appointed at levels A to E excluding those
staff at the top salary point of the relevant level.
Procedures
(1) An increment will be awarded automatically unless a recommendation to withhold the increment is
  made by the supervisor.
(2) The supervisor shall review the performance of the staff member over the preceding period in accordance
  with the Performance Planning and Review for Academic Staff (PPR-AS) policy (see 
B/9.2
It is acknowledged that academic staff work across the areas of:
academic leadership
teaching performance and leadership
research, scholarship and other creative activity, and
professional leadership.
The staff member and supervisor may agree that the staff member need not undertake duties in all of
  these areas in order to achieve incremental progression. Where such agreement is obtained satisfactory
  performance will be required in those areas in which the staff member has focused their activities.
The review of performance shall be made in the context of the relevant position classification standard
  and the duties performed by the staff member during the incremental period.
(3) Where the supervisor considers that the performance of the staff member has not been satisfactory,
  the supervisor shall inform the staff member of the area/s where performance is considered unsatisfactory
  at least two months prior to the incremental date.
(4) The staff member shall have the opportunity to provide the supervisor with any mitigating circumstances
  or ongoing development of which the supervisor may be unaware. The staff member shall provide this
  information to the supervisor within two weeks.
The staff member shall have the opportunity to discuss performance with the supervisor.
(5) The supervisor shall make any recommendation only after due consideration of such mitigating circumstances
  or ongoing development as provided by the staff member.
(6) Any recommendation to deny an increment shall be provided in writing by the supervisor to the
  staff member and the authorising officer.
(7) Where the supervisor makes a recommendation to withhold an increment and the recommendation is
  supported by the authorising officer the increment shall be withheld for a period of twelve months.
(8) Where the supervisor makes a recommendation to withhold an increment, the authorising officer
  may after consultation with the supervisor set aside the recommendation.
(9) The decision by the authorising officer to withhold an increment shall be made and conveyed to
the Human Resources Department prior to the completion of the relevant incremental period.
Review process
A staff member who has been denied incremental progression may seek a review of the decision by making
  application to the Human Resources Director within four weeks of notification of the decision. The
  application should include the reasons for seeking the review. The review will be conducted by a committee
  comprising a senior officer of the University and a nominee of the National Tertiary Education Industry
  Union.
The committee shall conduct its review as expeditiously as possible and shall have access to all relevant
  information, records and persons. The committee shall present a report and recommendation to the Deputy
  Vice-Chancellor for determination within four weeks of lodgement of the application. The staff member
  will be provided with a copy of the report and recommendation of the committee at the same time.
Process for managing unsatisfactory performance
A recommendation to withhold an increment may also be made under the Process for Managing Unsatisfactory
  Performance. The provisions relating to this process are contained in the 
QUT
  Enterprise Bargaining Agreement (Academic Staff)
Top 
7.8.2 Incremental progression - professional staff 
Incremental progression is available for professional staff as outlined in the 
QUT
    Enterprise Bargaining Agreement (Professional Staff)
(Clause
17).
Top 
7.8.3 Accelerated incremental progression - academic and professional staff 
Following the formal PPR review and where a supervisor determines that a staff member's performance
  against the agreed performance objectives outlined in the PPR plan is exceptional, the supervisor may
  recommend to the authorising officer advancement of a staff member through more than one salary increment.
  The authorising officer may approve accelerated progression only where the staff member's performance
is clearly exceptional against the agreed performance objectives.
Top 
Related Documents 
MOPP B/9.1 Performance planning and review for professional staff
MOPP B/9.2 Performance planning and review for academic staff
MOPP Appendix 3 Schedule of Authorities and Delegations
Top 
Modification History 
Date
Sections
Source
Details
17.11.05
B/7.8.3
Vice-Chancellor
Revised policy to comply with Higher Education Workplace Relations Requirements
        (HEWRR); policy re-numbered (formerly B/6.3)
01.06.01
B/7.8.1
Vice-Chancellor
Revised policy in accordance with EBA (Academic Staff) 2000-2003
31.01.01
B/7.8.3
Human Resources Department
Updated
Top 
    Chapter A | Chapter B | Chapter C | Chapter D | Chapter E | Chapter F | Chapter G | Chapter H | Chapter I | Appendices | Protocol for MOPP Policy | Recent Updates
    QUT Home | MOPP Home
    CRICOS No. 00213J
    Privacy | Copyright | Accessibility
    Last modified 12-May-2010
    Contact us | Feedback | Disclaimer
