QUT | MOPP | B/7.1 Attendance and working hours
            QUT&nbsp;Home
          Contact&nbsp;us
          Search
      MOPP Home
      Protocol for MOPP Policy
      Recent Updates
      B/7.1 Attendance and working hours
Chapters
A - Governance/Organisation
B - Human Resources
C - Learning/Teaching
D - Research/Development
E - Student Administration
F - Information Management
G - Financial Management
H - Physical Facilities
I - International/Community
MOPP Appendices
MOPP Protocol
MOPP Updates
[Print-friendly version]
Contact OfficerManager, Policy Planning and Workplace Relations, HR 
Approval Date17/11/2005 
Approval AuthorityVice-Chancellor 
Date of Next Review01/07/2009 
7.1.1 Academic staff 
7.1.2 Senior staff 
7.1.3 Professional staff 
7.1.4 Variable working hours scheme for professional staff 
7.1.5 Flexible hours arrangements for professional staff 
Related Documents 
Modification History 
7.1.1 Academic staff 
Academic staff below the level of head of school work under the direction of their head of school
  and have an overall responsibility to perform assigned duties in the interests of maintaining the efficient
  operation of QUT. The duties and workload of an academic staff member are determined by the head of
  school following consultation with the staff member. The provisions relating to availability of academic
  staff and workload allocation are outlined in clauses 33 and 34 of the 
QUT
Enterprise Bargaining Agreement (Academic Staff)
Duties and attendance requirements for sessional academic staff are
  detailed in 
B/4.6
and
    in Schedule 5 of the 
QUT
    Enterprise Bargaining Agreement (Academic Staff)
Top 
7.1.2 Senior staff 
There are no specific hours of duty for senior staff (SSG1 - SSG7). Attendance is required to ensure
  maximum efficiency and productivity in the particular work area.
Top 
7.1.3 Professional staff 
The provisions relating to hours and patterns of work for professional staff, including work cycle,
  overtime, breaks, penalty rates, shift work and flexible hours arrangements are contained in the 
QUT
  Enterprise Bargaining Agreement (Professional Staff)
- Part C.
Staff are required to work within the span of hours in accordance with the category in which they
  are employed (see clause 29 of the QUT Enterprise Bargaining Agreement (Professional Staff), except
  where a flexible hours arrangement is introduced.
Policy relating to flexible hours arrangements is detailed in B/7.1.5 below.
Timesheets
All professional staff classified at HEW  Levels 1-7 (inclusive) must complete attendance records or timesheets. Timesheets  must be submitted to and approved by the staff member&rsquo;s supervisor on a monthly  basis.
Supervisors may request staff above HEW  Level 7 who are participating in the variable working hours scheme to complete  attendance records. 
Top 
7.1.4 Variable working hours scheme for professional staff 
The variable working hours scheme allows supervisors and staff to negotiate a flexible working pattern
  within the existing span of hours. Regular flexible working patterns outside of a staff members normal
  span of hours may be agreed in accordance with provisions in B/7.1.5. Implementation of the scheme
  must ensure that the staffing requirements of the organisational area are met, while allowing for some
flexibility to staff working patterns.
Under the variable working hours scheme, staff may take rostered full or part days off work provided
  they work the total monthly number of ordinary hours between the span of hours prescribed in clause
  27.1 of the 
QUT
  Enterprise Bargaining Agreement (Professional Staff)
Negotiation between staff and supervisors should be undertaken to facilitate the development of individual
  staff work patterns. All professional staff at QUT may participate in the variable working hours scheme,
  subject to the following conditions:
Administration of the scheme shall be the responsibility of heads of organisational units;
Heads of organisational units have the right to refuse a staff member's participation in the scheme
    where it can be demonstrated that there would be an impediment to the efficient operation of the
    organisational unit should participation in the scheme be permitted;
Heads of organisational units must provide to the relevant staff member(s) a written explanation
    for refusing their participation in the scheme. Similarly, heads of organisational units will inform
    their own supervisors why staff within their area have been refused access to the variable working
    hours scheme;
Staff are required to work their total prescribed hours per four-week cycle.
The following general requirements are also applicable:
All rostered time off is taken as standard working hours;
Heads of organisational units shall arrange staffing to ensure the area will operate efficiently
    throughout normal working hours each day. This staffing must be arranged from existing staff resources;
Rostered time off must be arranged in advance by mutual agreement with the supervisor. Carryover
    of debits or credits of hours into the subsequent pay period is not permitted except in exceptional
    circumstances. Authority for approval rests with the relevant head of organisational unit, who must
    sign the attendance records accordingly;
Grievances arising from this scheme will be dealt with in accordance with the University's procedures
    for grievance resolution (see 
B/10.1
Provisions regarding rest pauses, meal breaks and overtime prescribed in Part C of the 
QUT
Enterprise Bargaining Agreement (Professional Staff)
apply.
Top 
7.1.5 Flexible hours arrangements for professional staff 
Flexible hours arrangements allow for the option of varying a staff member's existing span
    of hours working arrangements in response to the operational needs of the organisational unit and/or
    in response to the needs of staff within it.
All research assistants and senior research assistants will work flexible hours arrangements as detailed
  in subclause 29.4. of the 
QUT
  Enterprise Bargaining Agreement (Professional Staff)
. Staff whose working patterns are
  primarily of a shift work nature as detailed in clause 28 of the 
QUT
  Enterprise Bargaining Agreement (Professional Staff)
are excluded from participating in flexible
  working hours arrangements .
For all other professional staff this arrangement may be initiated by either the staff member or the
  supervisor and can only be introduced following consultation with and agreement between the supervisor
  of the organisational unit and each staff member affected.
The following provisions apply to the making or varying of a flexible hours arrangement:
(a) 
Any variation to the existing span of hours of work will still require a regular
  pattern of work over the four (4) week cycle. The period of time for which any arrangement will apply
  shall not exceed twelve (12) months.
(b) 
Where a supervisor wishes to vary the existing span of hours of a staff member,
  the reasons for and benefits of the proposed variation should be discussed with all staff affected.
  Where a staff member wishes to vary their working hours they should discuss the proposed variation
  with their supervisor who must also consider all other staff who may be affected by the proposed variation.
(c) All reasonable requests by either the staff member or supervisor for additional flexibility or
  for changes to a flexible hours arrangement should be given reasonable consideration.
(d) 
Issues to be considered when varying existing hours arrangements include, but
  are not limited to:
family responsibilities
safety and travelling requirements
the operational requirements of the organisational unit, and
the impact on other staff who may be affected by the variation.
(e) 
Any variation to the spread of hours worked will require the agreement of all
  affected staff members. Agreement will not be sought through the exertion of undue pressure or intimidation.
(f) 
Where agreement on a variation to hours is reached, this will be recorded in
  writing by the supervisor and the relevant staff member. The staff member will be provided with a copy
  of the agreement.
(g) A flexible working arrangement may be varied by mutual agreement or discontinued by the supervisor
  or staff member, after consultation with all affected staff. In such circumstances reasonable notice
  will be given, but notice shall be no later than four (4) weeks before any variation to hours of work
  begins.
(h) 
If a staff member or supervisor is unable to comply with a proposed variation,
  the matter should be discussed fully between the staff member and supervisor. The staff member or supervisor
  may be supported by a person of their choosing, including where the staff member requests a staff representative(s).
(i) 
Any disputes arising out of the implementation of this policy may be referred
  by either the staff member or the supervisor to the Grievance Resolution Procedures for Workplace Related
  Grievances and Bullying (see 
B/10.1
Further details are contained in clause 29 of the 
QUT
Enterprise Bargaining Agreement (Professional Staff)
Top 
Related Documents 
MOPP B/8.1 QUT Code of Conduct
QUT Enterprise Bargaining Agreement (Academic
  Staff)
QUT Enterprise Bargaining Agreement (Professional
  Staff)
QUT  Employee Collective Agreement (Senior Staff) 2009 - 2012
Top 
Modification History 
Date
Sections
Source
Details
  26.04.07
   B/7.1.3 
   Vice-Chancellor
  Revised policy relating to approval of  timesheets
17.11.05
All
Vice-Chancellor
Policy updated and revised to include provisions for flexible hours arrangements
Top 
    Chapter A | Chapter B | Chapter C | Chapter D | Chapter E | Chapter F | Chapter G | Chapter H | Chapter I | Appendices | Protocol for MOPP Policy | Recent Updates
    QUT Home | MOPP Home
    CRICOS No. 00213J
    Privacy | Copyright | Accessibility
    Last modified 12-May-2010
    Contact us | Feedback | Disclaimer
