QUT | MOPP | B/7.12 Termination of employment on medical grounds - senior staff
            QUT&nbsp;Home
          Contact&nbsp;us
          Search
      MOPP Home
      Protocol for MOPP Policy
      Recent Updates
      B/7.12 Termination of employment on medical grounds - senior staff
Chapters
A - Governance/Organisation
B - Human Resources
C - Learning/Teaching
D - Research/Development
E - Student Administration
F - Information Management
G - Financial Management
H - Physical Facilities
I - International/Community
MOPP Appendices
MOPP Protocol
MOPP Updates
[Print-friendly version]
Contact OfficerPrincipal HR Advisor (Policy and Workplace Relations) 
Approval Date07/09/2009 
Approval AuthorityVice-Chancellor 
Date of Next Review01/09/2012 
7.12.1 Policy 
7.12.2 Application 
7.12.3 Procedures 
7.12.4 Delegation of process issues 
Related Documents 
Modification History 
7.12.1 Policy 
QUT may terminate the employment of senior staff of the University on medical grounds.
Top 
7.12.2 Application 
The procedures outlined in this policy apply to senior staff employed under the provisions of the
QUT Employee Collective Agreement (Senior Staff) 2009-2012
Top 
7.12.3 Procedures 
The Vice-Chancellor may require, in writing, any staff member whose capacity
    to perform his/her duties is in doubt to undergo a medical examination by a medical practitioner chosen
    by the University, at the expense of the University. At this time, the University will offer advice
    to the staff member on his/her options regarding retirement or temporary disability pursuant to the
    rules of the relevant superannuation fund. 
The Vice-Chancellor will provide a staff member with written notice of not
    less than two  months that a medical examination is required. Where the staff member elects to
    apply to the staff member's superannuation fund, prior to the expiry of the period of notice, for
    ill health, retirement or temporary disability benefit pursuant to the rules of the superannuation
    fund, the requirement for a medical examination under section (a) above will lapse and no further
  action will, subject to section (c) below, be taken by the Vice-Chancellor under this policy. 
Where the superannuation fund decides that the staff member, following a period
    of receipt of temporary disability benefit, is capable of resuming work and the Vice-Chancellor elects
    to dispute this decision, the Vice-Chancellor may proceed in accordance with this provision without
  further recourse to the provisions of section (b) above. 
A copy of the medical report made by the medical practitioner under section (a)
  above will be made available to the Vice-Chancellor and to the staff member. 
If the medical examination reveals that the staff member is unable to perform
    his/her duties and is unlikely to be able to resume them within a reasonable period, being not less
    than 12 months, the Vice-Chancellor may, subject to section (f) below, terminate the employment
    of the staff member in accordance with the notice required by the staff member's contract of employment
    or where no notice is specified, a period of six months. Prior to taking action to terminate the
    employment of a staff member, the Vice-Chancellor may offer the staff member the opportunity to submit
    a resignation and if such a resignation is offered, will accept it forthwith and not proceed with action
  to terminate employment. 
A staff member (or person acting on their behalf) may request that the findings
    of the medical examination referred to in section (e) above be confirmed by a second medical practitioner
    in accordance with section (g) below. Such a request must be received by the Vice-Chancellor within
  14 days of the medical report being made available to the staff member. 
If such a request is received, the Vice-Chancellor will not terminate the employment
    of the staff member unless and until the findings of the report are confirmed by a second medical practitioner
  appointed by the University. 
This second practitioner will not be the practitioner who made the initial report.
    Every effort will be made to appoint the second practitioner no later than seven  days from the
  staff member's request being received by the Vice-Chancellor. 
In making an assessment as to whether or not a staff member is unable to perform
    his/her duties and is unlikely to be able to resume them within a reasonable period, the medical practitioner,
    as far as possible, will apply the same definitions of permanent incapacity as contained in the trust
    deeds of the staff member's superannuation scheme, if any, in determining qualification of a disablement
  pension or other similar benefit. 
These provisions will not displace or override any provisions in existing workers'
    compensation schemes or awards whether State or Federal (including WorkCover) or the provisions contained
  in any workers compensation legislation that may be enacted. 
The Vice-Chancellor may construe a failure by a staff member to undergo a medical
    examination in accordance with these procedures within three months of a written notification to do
    so as establishing that such a medical examination would have found that the staff member is unable
    to perform his/her duties and is unlikely to be able to resume them within 12 months. In such
    circumstances, the Vice-Chancellor may act accordingly provided that such a refusal by a staff member
    in these circumstances will not constitute misconduct or serious misconduct nor lead to any greater
  penalty or loss of entitlements than would have resulted from an adverse medical report. 
Payment in lieu of the notice prescribed above may be made by agreement between
  the staff member and the University.
In calculating any payment in lieu of notice, the salary that a staff member would have received
        in respect of ordinary time the staff member would have worked during the period of notice, had the
  staff member's employment not been terminated, will be used.
Top 
7.12.4 Delegation of process issues 
Despite any reference to the Vice-Chancellor throughout this policy, the Vice-Chancellor may, at any
  time, direct that process issues be delegated to another senior officer of the University.
Top 
Related Documents 
QUT Employee Collective Agreement (Senior Staff) 2009-2012
Top 
Modification History 
Date
Sections
Source
Details
   07.09.09
   All
   Vice-Chancellor
  Policy revised to reflect provisions of the Employee Collective  Agreement (Senior Staff) 2009-2012
06.07.05
All
Vice-Chancellor
New policy resulting from Certified Agreement Senior Staff 2005-2008
Top 
    Chapter A | Chapter B | Chapter C | Chapter D | Chapter E | Chapter F | Chapter G | Chapter H | Chapter I | Appendices | Protocol for MOPP Policy | Recent Updates
    QUT Home | MOPP Home
    CRICOS No. 00213J
    Privacy | Copyright | Accessibility
    Last modified 12-May-2010
    Contact us | Feedback | Disclaimer
