QUT | MOPP | B/8.3 Whistleblowers protection management policy
            QUT&nbsp;Home
          Contact&nbsp;us
          Search
      MOPP Home
      Protocol for MOPP Policy
      Recent Updates
      B/8.3 Whistleblowers protection management policy
Chapters
A - Governance/Organisation
B - Human Resources
C - Learning/Teaching
D - Research/Development
E - Student Administration
F - Information Management
G - Financial Management
H - Physical Facilities
I - International/Community
MOPP Appendices
MOPP Protocol
MOPP Updates
[Print-friendly version]
Contact OfficerExecutive Officer, Registrar's Office 
Approval Date28/05/1998 
Approval AuthorityCouncil 
Date of Next Review31/12/2010 
8.3.1 Object of the policy 
8.3.2 Protected disclosures 
8.3.3 Making a disclosure 
8.3.4 Assessment of disclosure 
8.3.5 Investigation 
8.3.6 Report 
8.3.7 Action 
8.3.8 Confidentiality 
8.3.9 Record keeping and reporting 
8.3.10 Reprisals 
8.3.11 Further information 
Related Documents 
Modification History 
8.3.1 Object of the policy 
The 
Whistleblowers Protection Act 1994
(Qld) provides for the protection 
  of employees of the University and, where applicable,  other persons making "public interest disclosures" about unlawful, 
  negligent or improper conduct in public sector organisations, or about danger 
  to public health or safety or the environment.
As a public sector entity established by an Act of the Queensland Parliament, 
  QUT is subject to the Whistleblowers Protection Act and all University employees 
  are public officers for the purposes of the legislation. The University, therefore, 
  has obligations placed on it related to receiving public interest disclosures, 
  and to ensure that persons making such disclosures are protected from reprisals.
The Registrar has been appointed the responsible officer for receiving disclosures 
  and acting on them.
Top 
8.3.2 Protected disclosures 
This policy applies to public interest disclosures within the meaning of the 
  Whistleblowers Protection Act. A public officer (including a University employee) 
  may make a public interest disclosure about
A criminal offence
Serious misconduct (within the meaning of the relevant Enterprise Bargaining 
    Agreement or University policy)
Administrative action that is unlawful, arbitrary, unjust, oppressive, improperly 
    discriminatory or taken for an improper purpose that adversely affects anybody's 
    interests in a substantial and specific way
Negligent or improper management directly or indirectly resulting, or likely 
    to result, in a substantial waste of any University or other State Government 
    funds, or
A substantial and specific danger to public health or safety, or the environment.
In addition, anybody can make a public interest disclosure about:
A substantial and specific danger to the health or safety of a person with 
    a disability
The commission of an offence listed in Schedule 2 of the Whistleblowers 
    Protection Act where the commission or breach amounts to a substantial or 
    specific danger to the environment; or
Causing, attempting to cause, or conspiring to cause detriment to another 
    person because, or in the belief that, a person has made, or may make, a public 
    interest disclosure.
A person makes a public interest disclosure if they honestly believe on reasonable 
  grounds that they have information that tends to show conduct or danger that 
  falls within one of the above categories. If the information is about conduct 
  or an event, it may be about conduct or an event that has (or may have) happened, 
  is (or may be) happening or will (or may) happen. The disclosure may be about 
  a person that is unknown.
The Whistleblowers Protection  Act only protects public interest disclosures that are made to an &quot;  appropriate entity &quot; . The University is an appropriate entity for conduct  concerning the University, a University employee or behaviour that the  University has the power to investigate or remedy. Protected public interest  disclosures may also be made to an external public sector agency having  investigative powers in relation to particular matters (the Crime and  Misconduct Commission for example in the case of official misconduct) or to a  member of the Legislative Assembly who may refer it to an appropriate public  sector agency.
The Act does not provide  protection against reprisals where a public interest disclosure is made in some  other way for example through the media or to a political party. 
The Office of the Registrar can provide information and advice about making 
  a public interest disclosure and the protection afforded by law to those who 
  do so. University employees are encouraged to make an informed decision as to 
  whether to make public interest disclosures and, if so, how best to make those 
  disclosures.
Giving intentionally false or misleading information in a public interest disclosure, 
  or as part of the investigation into the disclosure, is an offence. It may also 
  give rise to disciplinary action for misconduct or serious misconduct.
Top 
8.3.3 Making a disclosure 
The University has established  the following procedure for employees  making a public interest disclosure. To ensure public interest disclosures are  recognised as such, and appropriately investigated, it is preferable that a  disclosure is made in writing to:
  the employee&rsquo;s supervisor or manager
  the Registrar 
  the Vice-Chancellor, in the case of a       disclosure about the Registrar. 
  However, the Act provides that  a public interest disclosure may always be made to:
  the Vice-Chancellor
  a member of University Council
  the Director, Assurance and Risk Management Services
  the Crime and Misconduct Commission (in the case of a disclosure  regarding official misconduct)
  a Member of the Legislative Assembly (who may refer it to a relevant  public sector entity).
If a supervisor or other  University officer receives a public interest disclosure verbally they should  encourage the discloser to put the information in writing. If the discloser  does not, the supervisor, or other University officer, must promptly make a  written note recording the precise matters raised and this should be referred  to the Registrar (or to the Vice-Chancellor if the disclosure is about the  Registrar).
A disclosure can be made  anonymously, however this is not encouraged as it can make the disclosure more  difficult to investigate.
Where a person making a  disclosure has an honest and reasonable belief about the inappropriate conduct  or activity disclosed, that person is protected under the Whistleblowers  Protection Act from any civil, criminal or administrative action that results  from making a public interest disclosure. It is however a criminal offence  under the Whistleblowers Protection Act to make a disclosure which is  intentionally false or misleading. The University encourages persons  contemplating the making of a public interest disclosure to give due prior  consideration to that course to ensure that matters raised have substance and  are soundly based.
Top 
8.3.4 Assessment of disclosure 
When a disclosure is made to a  supervisor or other University officer, the supervisor or other University  officer must communicate the disclosure immediately to the Registrar (or, if  the disclosure is about the Registrar, to the Vice-Chancellor).
The assessment of the  disclosure and the determination of appropriate arrangements to be put in place  to protect the discloser will be made by the Registrar on a case by case basis,  in accordance with the Whistleblowers Protection Act and this policy. 
Top 
8.3.5 Investigation 
If the Registrar determines that a disclosure is a public interest disclosure, 
  in order to ensure the information is investigated and the discloser is protected 
  from any retributive action, the Registrar may develop an investigation and 
  protection plan in consultation with the discloser. The plan will address whether 
  immediate action needs to be taken to halt the conduct or remedy the danger 
  to which the public interest disclosure relates and will recommend action to 
  be taken to avoid reprisals against the whistleblower. This should include an 
  assessment of the whistleblower's involvement in any other dispute resolution 
procedures.
The Registrar may consult with other relevant University officers (while maintaining 
  the confidentiality of the person making the disclosure). The University may 
  chose to appoint an internal or external investigator, as appropriate. However, 
  the disclosure will not be referred outside the University without first consulting 
  the discloser.
Any personnel (whether internal or external to the University) involved in 
  the investigation will be fully briefed on their obligations under the Whistleblowers 
  Protection Act and this policy, and the consequences of any breach of the obligations.
The Whistleblowers Protection Act allows the person making the disclosure to 
  request information about the progress of any investigation, and any action 
  taken on the disclosure. The University will provide such information where 
  it is reasonable to do so.
A determination that a disclosure is not a public interest disclosure may be 
  reviewable under the
Judicial Review Act 1991 (Qld). Care should be taken 
  therefore to structure the written advice arising from the assessment to include 
  the contents of the disclosure, material findings regarding the disclosure, 
  evidence relied upon to support the material findings and reasons for any further 
  action.
Top 
8.3.6 Report 
Once a disclosure has been investigated, a report of the investigation will 
  be provided to the Registrar. The report may contain recommendations for further 
  action. Where reasonable the report (or an edited extract of the report) will 
  be forwarded to the discloser.
Top 
8.3.7 Action 
The Registrar will decide what further action (if any) will be taken on the 
  disclosure.
Top 
8.3.8 Confidentiality 
The University will, to the greatest extent possible, keep the disclosure and 
  the identity of the discloser confidential.
Obligations of natural justice and procedural fairness may require the information 
  tending to reveal the identity of the discloser may be made available to other 
  people (eg a person accused of serious misconduct). Such a disclosure will only 
  be made where it is unlikely that a reprisal will be taken against the person 
  making the disclosure.
Breaching the obligation of confidentiality is an offence, and may also be 
  misconduct or serious misconduct.
Top 
8.3.9 Record keeping and reporting 
Although public interest disclosures are required to be kept confidential, 
  the University has some reporting and record-keeping obligations imposed on 
  it, both under the Whistleblowers Protection Act and other Acts that prevail 
  over this obligation of confidentiality.
The Registrar must keep a record of all public interest disclosures or purported 
  public interest disclosures received by the University. These records will be 
  kept in the central records system as limited access files and will be strictly 
  confidential.
The Registrar is responsible for fulfilling the University's reporting obligations 
  under the Whistleblowers Protection Act, which includes preparation of a report 
  to be included in the University's Annual Report. The report must contain statistical 
  information about the number of disclosures received by the University for the 
  foregoing fiscal year and the number of disclosures substantially verified. 
  The specific content of the disclosures, or the identity of disclosers are not 
  included in this information.
In some cases the Registrar may be bound to inform other agencies about the 
  contents of a disclosure, such as the Crime and Misconduct Commission. In other 
  cases, the Registrar may be of the view that it is appropriate for other agency 
  staff to be informed. In all cases, the confidentiality of the identity of the 
  person making the disclosure will be protected to the greatest extent permitted 
  by law and the Registrar will (where practical) consult with the discloser before 
  informing the other agency.
Top 
8.3.10 Reprisals 
The Whistleblowers Protection Act provides that a person must not cause, or 
  attempt to conspire to cause, detriment to another person because, or in the 
  belief that, anybody has made, or may make, a public interest disclosure. Such 
  conduct is called a reprisal. Reprisals are not condoned or tolerated by the 
  University.
In addition to being an offence and a civil wrong, taking a reprisal may also 
  be misconduct or serious misconduct.
A person suffering a reprisal has legal protection under Part 5 of the Whistleblowers 
  Protection Act.
Any information about reprisals at the University should 
  immediately be referred to the Registrar. Any such information is a public interest 
  disclosure and will be to be treated in accordance with this policy.
Top 
8.3.11 Further information 
Further advice about this policy can be obtained from the Office of the Registrar 
  or the Director, Assurance and Risk Management Services.
Top 
Related Documents 
MOPP B/8.1 Code of Conduct
MOPP B/8.2 Official misconduct
MOPP B/8.5 Disciplinary action for misconduct
    and serious misconduct - senior staff
QUT Enterprise
      Bargaining Agreement (Academic Staff)
, clause 44
QUT Enterprise
      Bargaining Agreement (Professional Staff)
, clause 49
Whistleblowers Protection Act 1994 (Qld)
Top 
Modification History 
Date
Sections
Source
Details
  16.09.08
   All
  Registrar
  Updated policy consistent  with legislative amendments to Whistleblowers Protection Act 1994
02.07.03
All
Vice-Chancellor
Revised policy to enhance consistency with the Whistleblowers Protection 
      Act 1994 (endorsed by Vice-Chancellors Advisory Committee 27.03.03)
28.05.98
All
Council
New policy
Top 
    Chapter A | Chapter B | Chapter C | Chapter D | Chapter E | Chapter F | Chapter G | Chapter H | Chapter I | Appendices | Protocol for MOPP Policy | Recent Updates
    QUT Home | MOPP Home
    CRICOS No. 00213J
    Privacy | Copyright | Accessibility
    Last modified 12-May-2010
    Contact us | Feedback | Disclaimer
