QUT | MOPP | B/8.6 Corruption and fraud control policy
            QUT&nbsp;Home
          Contact&nbsp;us
          Search
      MOPP Home
      Protocol for MOPP Policy
      Recent Updates
      B/8.6 Corruption and fraud control policy
Chapters
A - Governance/Organisation
B - Human Resources
C - Learning/Teaching
D - Research/Development
E - Student Administration
F - Information Management
G - Financial Management
H - Physical Facilities
I - International/Community
MOPP Appendices
MOPP Protocol
MOPP Updates
[Print-friendly version]
Contact OfficerDirector, Assurance and Risk Management Services 
Approval Date20/08/2008 
Approval AuthorityCouncil 
Date of Next Review01/09/2011 
8.6.1 Policy principles 
8.6.2 Definitions 
8.6.3 Roles and responsibilities for corruption and fraud control 
8.6.4 Implementation of corruption and fraud control
Related Documents 
Modification History 
8.6.1 Policy principles 
QUT is committed to maintaining an organisational culture which ensures that  effective corruption and fraud prevention is an integral part of all University  activities and a core management capability, consistent with the QUT Code of  Conduct ( B/8.1 ) and  relevant legislation and in accordance with the Australian Standard 8001-2008 Fraud and Corruption Control.
The University&rsquo;s policy on corruption and fraud control is based on the  following principles:
  QUT operates in an environment in which ethical  conduct is expected, encouraged and supported, with no tolerance for corrupt  conduct, fraudulent activities or maladministration.
  Officers of the University are placed in a  position of trust and are required to maintain and enhance public confidence in  the integrity of the University and to advance the common good of the  University community.
  The University will investigate and manage all  reported cases of alleged fraud or corruption in accordance with its misconduct  procedures and/or criminal proceedings.
  QUT will ensure that it has in place effective operational  controls and procedures for the prevention and detection of corrupt and  fraudulent activities, as detailed in the University&rsquo;s Corruption and Fraud Control Plan.
Top 
8.6.2 Definitions 
Corruption is defined in a practical way by AS8001-2008 as dishonest activity in which a director,  executive, manager, employee or contractor of an entity acts contrary to the  interests of the entity and abuses his/her position of trust in order to  achieve some personal gain or advantage for him or herself or for another  person or entity. It is further described by the Crime and Misconduct  Commission (CMC) as behaviour that may involve fraud, theft, the misuse of  position or authority or other acts that are unacceptable to an organisation  and which may cause loss to the organisation, its clients or the general  community. It may also include other elements such as breaches of trust and  confidentiality. The behaviour need not necessarily be criminal.
Fraud is defined by AS8001-2008 as dishonest activity causing actual or potential financial loss to any  person or entity including theft of moneys or other property by employees or  persons external to the entity and whether or not deception is used at the  time, immediately before or immediately following the activity. This also  includes the deliberate falsification, concealment, destruction or use of  falsified documentation used or intended for use for a normal business purpose  or the improper use of information or position. Fraud can also be seen as a  major subset of corruption and is a deliberate, intentional and premeditated  dishonest act or omission acted out with the purpose of deceiving to gain  advantage from a position of trust and authority. It includes acts such as  theft, making false statements/representation, evasion, manipulation of  information, criminal deception and misuse of University property or time.
Maladministration is defined in the Whistleblowers Protection Act 1994 as an administrative action that is unlawful, arbitrary, unjust,  oppressive, improperly discriminatory or taken for an improper purpose, and  which substantially and adversely affects someone's interests.
Top 
8.6.3 Roles and responsibilities for corruption and  fraud control 
a) Council
Council approves policy and receives advice on the Corruption and Fraud Control Plan and Risk Assessments through Audit and Risk Management Committee as  required.
b) Audit and Risk Management Committee
Audit and Risk Management  Committee endorses QUT&rsquo;s Corruption and Fraud Control Plan and Risk Assessments and reports to Council as required.
c) Vice-Chancellor
As the University&rsquo;s chief executive officer, the Vice-Chancellor is  responsible for the implementation of this policy through the Corruption and Fraud Control Plan and an  effective internal control structure and policy (see A/2.6 ).
d) Senior  managers
Senior managers are responsible in their organisational area for:
  Establishing controls and procedures for  prevention and detection of any fraudulent or corrupt activities, in accordance  with the Corruption and Fraud Control  Plan.
  Identifying risk exposures to corrupt and  fraudulent activities and ensuring that regular assessment of the risks are  undertaken.
  Reinforcing the requirement for ethical conduct  by staff and other officers and encouraging the prompt reporting of any  instances of fraud, corrupt conduct or maladministration.
  Ensuring that staff are aware of the  University&rsquo;s policy on corruption and fraud control, and their obligations for  ethical conduct in their duties.
e) Managers  of operational areas
Managers are responsible in their operational area for:
  Displaying a positive attitude towards  compliance with laws, rules and regulations (see A/1.3 ).
  Ensuring that they are aware of indicators of  fraudulent and corrupt conduct, and responding appropriately to such indicators.
  Establishing adequate internal controls to  provide for the security and accountability of University resources to prevent  or reduce the opportunity for fraudulent and corrupt activities.
f) All  staff
All staff have a responsibility to undertake their duties in accordance with  the Code of Conduct ( B/8.1 ) and to promptly report any instances of fraudulent or corrupt activities to  their supervisor.
Further specific responsibilities for fraud and corruption control are  detailed in the Corruption and Fraud  Control Plan. 
Top 
8.6.4 Implementation of corruption and fraud control 
The University has identified the following elements as critical to its  successful control of corrupt and fraudulent activity. These elements are  further detailed in the Corruption and  Fraud Control Plan.
a) Good corporate governance
QUT&rsquo;s Corporate Governance Framework ( A/1.1 ) is integral to the  control and management of corruption and fraud. Corporate governance  structures, such as the University&rsquo;s Schedule of  Authorities and Delegations and Council Procedure 1 - Committees,  improve QUT&rsquo;s transparency and accountability, consistent with sound business practices  and compliance, and reduces the likelihood that it will suffer financial loss  or damage to its reputation as a result of misconduct by its officers.
b) Executive and management commitment
The commitment of the Council, Vice-Chancellor and management at all levels  of the University to the proactive prevention of corrupt or fraudulent  activities in a systematic way is crucial to effective fraud and corruption  control.
  All managers should ensure that they are familiar with the Corruption and Fraud Control Plan and  that there are control mechanisms in place consistent with the Plan within  their organisational area of control.
c) Internal control structure
Financial, administrative and information systems, and academic internal  controls, are all essential requirements for corruption and fraud prevention.  The University&rsquo;s Internal Control policy ( A/2.6 ) states that  individual managers are responsible for daily operations and for maintaining a  cost-effective internal control structure within their organisational  responsibility. Internal controls are subject to audit reviews by Assurance and  Risk Management Services.
d) University culture of ethical behaviour
QUT values honesty, integrity and ethical behaviour and practices and is  committed to maintaining a culture of high ethical standards and accountability  in its teaching, research and community activities. Such a culture is  reinforced with solid governance structures, management commitment, and relevant  staff development and training.
e) Reporting of and dealing with complaints
All complaints of suspected corrupt or fraudulent behaviour should be  reported in accordance with the University&rsquo;s Code of Conduct and Corruption and Fraud Control Plan.
f) Recruitment and development of staff
QUT&rsquo;s recruitment policies and practices underpin the  prevention of corruption and fraud.
Courses / seminars and presentations on the topics of ethics, corruption and  fraud prevention and detection, and compliance obligations of individual staff  members, are embedded into the University's ongoing staff induction,  development, training and awareness programs as detailed in the Corruption and Fraud Control Plan.
Top 
Related Documents 
Corruption and Fraud Control Plan
MOPP A/1.3 Compliance policy
MOPP A/2.6 Internal control policy
MOPP B/8.1 QUT Code of Conduct
MOPP B/8.2 Official misconduct
MOPP B/8.5 Disciplinary action for misconduct and serious misconduct -  senior staff
MOPP B/8.3 QUT Whistleblowers Protection Management policy
MOPP B/8.4 Academic and professional staff misconduct
MOPP B/8.5 Disciplinary action for misconduct and serious misconduct &ndash; senior  staff
MOPP D/2.6 QUT Code of Conduct for Research
MOPP Appendix 2 Council Procedure 1 - Committees
Public Sector Ethics Act 1994 (Qld)
Whistleblowers Protection Act 1994 (Qld)
Crime and Misconduct Act 2001 (Qld)
Queensland Criminal Code Act 1899 
Financial Accountability Act 2009 (Qld)
Financial and Performance Management Standard 2009 (Qld)
Australian Standard: AS 8001-2003  Corporate Governance - Fraud and Corruption Control
Top 
Modification History 
Date
Sections
Source
Details
  20.08.08
   All
   Council
  Revised policy (endorsed by  Vice-Chancellor&rsquo;s Advisory Committee 30.07.08 and Audit and Risk Management  Committee 13.06.08)
16/07/03
All
Council
New policy
Top 
    Chapter A | Chapter B | Chapter C | Chapter D | Chapter E | Chapter F | Chapter G | Chapter H | Chapter I | Appendices | Protocol for MOPP Policy | Recent Updates
    QUT Home | MOPP Home
    CRICOS No. 00213J
    Privacy | Copyright | Accessibility
    Last modified 17-May-2010
    Contact us | Feedback | Disclaimer
