QUT | MOPP | B/8.1 Code of conduct
            QUT&nbsp;Home
          Contact&nbsp;us
          Search
      MOPP Home
      Protocol for MOPP Policy
      Recent Updates
      B/8.1 Code of conduct
Chapters
A - Governance/Organisation
B - Human Resources
C - Learning/Teaching
D - Research/Development
E - Student Administration
F - Information Management
G - Financial Management
H - Physical Facilities
I - International/Community
MOPP Appendices
MOPP Protocol
MOPP Updates
[Print-friendly version]
Contact OfficerRegistrar 
Approval Date23/02/2005 
Approval AuthorityCouncil 
Date of Next Review31/12/2007 
8.1.1 Application 
8.1.2 Purpose of this code 
8.1.3 Consequences of non-compliance with this code 
8.1.4 Respect for the law and system of government 
8.1.5 Respect for persons 
8.1.6 Integrity 
8.1.7 Diligence 
8.1.8 Economy and Efficiency 
Related Documents 
Modification History 
    THIS POLICY IS CURRENTLY UNDER REVIEW - CONTACT SENIOR HR OFFICER, POLICY AND WORKPLACE RELATIONS, FOR FURTHER DETAILS.    
8.1.1 Application 
The QUT Code of Conduct applies to members of the University community including the following:
employees of the University, whether full-time or part-time, ongoing, fixed term,
    casual or sessional staff;
members of QUT Council or other University committees whether they hold office by
    election, selection or appointment;
visiting and adjunct academics;
volunteers who contribute to or act on behalf of the University (such as associate
    supervisors of students).
Additionally, individuals who are associated with QUT related entities or who have been granted access
  to QUT property, services or infrastructure are expected to comply with any applicable provisions of
  this code, as are consultants and independent contractors undertaking services for QUT.
Where the provisions of this code apply to all members of the University community, the general term “officer” is
  used.
Officers are bound by this code and the code also acts as a model for ethical conduct for students
(for further detail, see the QUT Student Code of Conduct (E/2.1).
Top 
8.1.2 Purpose of this code 
Each officer of the University plays a role in promoting QUT's values and in enhancing the reputation
  of QUT as influenced by these values. The values articulated in QUT's institutional plans support an
environment in which ethical behaviour and practices are expected and encouraged.
The 
Public Sector Ethics Act 1994
(Qld) declares five ethical principles as the basis of
  good public administration. These are:
respect for the law and system of government
respect for persons
integrity
diligence
economy and efficiency.
Each University officer has obligations directly linked to these ethical principles. The obligations
  contained in this code define the standards of conduct required of all University officers.
The code also has an educative purpose and provides examples as an aid to understanding the ethical
  obligations and to identifying and resolving ethical issues which arise in the performance of QUT duties
  or activities.
Non-compliance with this code creates risks for the University and thus, the Code of Conduct has strong
  support from QUT's governing body, Council. The code is regularly reviewed, and updated as necessary,
  to ensure that it reflects the highest standards of behaviour and professional conduct.
Top 
8.1.3 Consequences of non-compliance with this code 
The code of conduct regulates the behaviour of University officers, and forms
part of each staff member's conditions of employment.
A staff member whose conduct falls below the standards outlined in the code
  will be dealt with in accordance with relevant University procedures. An alleged
  breach of this code by a staff member may be dealt with under the processes
  outlined for the management of unsatisfactory performance (see  
B/9.5
and
  the relevant enterprise bargaining agreement clauses - 
QUT  Enterprise
  Bargaining Agreement (Academic Staff)
, clause 43 and 
QUT
  Enterprise Bargaining Agreement (Professional Staff)
  clause 48 ) or for managing misconduct or serious misconduct (see  
B/8.5
and
  the relevant enterprise bargaining agreement clause,- 
QUT
  Enterprise Bargaining Agreement (Academic Staff)
, clause 44 and 
QUT
  Enterprise Bargaining Agreement (Professional Staff)
, clause
  49 ). Grievance resolution processes may also be invoked to manage or resolve
  breaches of this code in appropriate cases (see  
A/6.1
Other members of the University community who do not comply with this code
  may have their association with QUT terminated, or rights of access to QUT
  services, facilities or infrastructure may be revoked.
Some breaches of this code may also have consequences for individual officers
  under criminal or civil provisions of the general law (for example, if the
  breach contravenes the Criminal Code (Qld), the Crimes Act 1914 (Cwth) or other
  laws such as the Anti-Discrimination Act 1991 (Qld)).
Top 
8.1.4 Respect for the law and system of government 
This ethical principle assumes a system of government based on the rule of law and the accountability
  of public officers. QUT has the power to make subordinate legislation on certain topics under the 
Queensland
  University of Technology Act 1998
, and its governing body, Council, establishes the programs,
policies and processes through which the University and its officers discharge legal obligations 
In common with all citizens, University officers are required to observe the law. However, this obligation
  does not detract from the traditional right of academics to engage in free enquiry and active criticism
  on matters of public concern, or to pursue research within their field of expertise on matters which
  may be controversial or unpopular, even where this involves challenge or criticism to ideas, methods
  or practices of government or governmental agencies.
a) Complying with the law
Whilst undertaking QUT responsibilities or activities, University officers must comply with the letter
  and the spirit of the laws of the State and the Commonwealth or fulfil obligations required by law
  such as relevant registrations or certifications. QUT maintains a statutory obligations compliance
  framework which identifies relevant laws and legal obligations to assist QUT officers identify and
  comply with their obligations (see Compliance Policy  
A/1.3
Examples
In line with concepts of academic freedom, an academic staff member may debate or criticise current
    affairs, but must not do so in a defamatory manner.
A volunteer or visiting academic must comply with anti-discrimination legislation (for further details,
    see the relevant MOPP policies at 
A/8
An officer who is required to obtain a “blue card” under the 
Commission for Children and Young
      People and Child Guardian Act 2000
(Qld) must do so.
A staff member must respect the moral rights of the creator of a copyright work where the copyright
    work is used in the course of academic or other University activities (for further details, see QUT's
    intellectual property policy at  
D/3.1.10
b) Complying with QUT statutes, rules, policies and decisions
The authority of QUT statutes and rules (see  
Appendix
    1(b)
and 
Appendix 1(c)
    is derived from the QUT Act 
and consequently, University officers are expected to comply
    with any applicable requirements.
Officers must also comply with the institutional policies published in the Manual of Policies and
  Procedures which derive their authority from decisions or delegations of QUT's governing body, Council.
Staff must comply with the Acceptable use of information technology resources policy (F/1.11).
Top 
8.1.5 Respect for persons 
This ethical principle covers the conduct of University officers in their dealings with others, including
  students, staff of the University and of external organisations, and members of the public. QUT values
  social justice, equal opportunity and a safe and supportive working environment, and so officers are
  expected to treat others fairly, honestly and responsively, and with proper regard for their rights
  and obligations.
a) Being responsive and courteous
University officers are expected to act in a respectful way towards others and to be responsive, courteous
  and prompt in dealing with requests or inquiries from students, staff or others.
Example
Where a response is required, a staff member should acknowledge or respond to email enquiries within
    a reasonable time (see  
F/1.5.2
for
    further information on email policy).
b) Avoiding discriminatory or harassing treatment of others
University officers must treat all persons with whom they come in contact equitably and fairly. Distinctions,
  exclusions or restrictions based on sex, gender, sexuality, race, disability, religion, marital or
  parental status, age, political or religious conviction or any other factor that is irrelevant to a
  person's ability to work, study or access QUT services is unlawful discrimination under relevant anti-discrimination
  laws.
Harassment is also unlawful under anti-discrimination laws. University officers must not engage in
  behaviours which may be unwelcome or which may be distressing, offensive or humiliating to others,
  as such behaviour may amount to harassment.
The University's equity policies (see
 A/8
  provide a framework of expectations for equitable treatment of others. Discrimination related grievance
  procedures explain in further detail the behaviours or actions which must be avoided (see  
A/8.5.
Examples
Supervisors must consider flexible arrangements for a staff member with a disability or with family
    responsibilities.
Academic staff should ensure that appropriate reasonable adjustments are made for students with
    a disability to enable participation in education through access to information, materials, lectures
    and other learning experiences, and all aspects of University life.
c) Respecting the privacy of others
University officers must respect the privacy of others when they collect, access or use personal information
  in the course of their University duties or activities, and must not disclose personal information
  except as permitted by QUT's privacy policy (see 
F/6.2
Example
When a student confides in a staff member, personal information about the student must not be discussed
    with or revealed to others, except where necessary to take action or make decisions about the student
    or if the student has agreed.
An academic staff member should not distribute class lists containing personal information without
    the agreement of all of the students concerned.
d) Making fair decisions
University staff or committee members should observe procedural fairness (
natural justice
  in their decision-making by:
giving an affected individual (whether a staff member or a student) the opportunity to
    understand the “case to be met” if a decision may be made which will adversely affect their interests,
    and to respond to it before a decision is made;
making decisions which are unbiased or uninfluenced by patronage or favouritism (see
      also section B/8.1.6 on conflicts of interest);
making decisions which take into account relevant considerations, not irrelevant ones.
Examples
Where a supervisor acts on a negative report on a staff member's performance, the staff member should
    be given details of the report made and the opportunity to respond to the report.
Extensions to assignment deadlines should be applied consistently to all students who request them
      (though reasonable accommodations for religious observances or for people with a disability may be
    taken into account).
An academic staff member must consider only academic criteria in grading a student's work, not the
    status of the student, whether fee-paying or otherwise.
e) Respecting the opinions of others
University officers should deal with differing opinion by rational debate, rather than by vilification,
  coercion, bullying or any form of intimidatory, offensive or humiliating behaviour.
University officers should give fair consideration to the views and contributions of others irrespective
  of their status or position within the University.
Grievances or disputes should be managed by following appropriate University channels (see QUT's grievance
  resolution policy at  
A/6.1
). Invoking
  grievance resolution or other appropriate procedures must not result in victimisation or intimidation.
Example
An officer must not respond to disagreement or alternative viewpoints of others in meetings or in the
      workplace by shouting or swearing, or by belittling or ridiculing the contributions or comments of
    others.
An academic staff member must respond politely to comments, questions or requests for clarification
      from students in the lecture room, and avoid belittling or ridiculing conduct in other forums associated
    with teaching and learning such as class email discussion groups.
f) Supervisory behaviour
A staff member with supervisory responsibilities has an important role in creating a fair and just
  working environment, and supervisors have a particular onus to maintain the standards of respect for
  others. Supervisors need to:
act equitably and consistently in their dealings with all of their subordinate staff;
ensure their staff understand the performance standards expected of them;
maintain open, honest and courteous communication with all staff;
avoid interactions which may reasonably be perceived as bullying of subordinate staff;
ensure workplace health and safety obligations are met, so that their staff work in
    a safe environment;
provide equitable access to appropriate development opportunities; and
provide reasonable accommodations for subordinate staff with a disability, family
    responsibilities or to allow religious or cultural observance.
Top 
8.1.6 Integrity 
This ethical principle recognises that the University and its officers are placed in a position of
  trust and officers should act in ways which maintain public confidence in the University and which
  advance the good of the University community. The trust that is placed in University officers, whether
  in the teaching, research or administrative environments, is put at risk unless they act with honesty,
  impartiality and propriety.
a) Identifying and managing conflicts of interest
Conflicts of interest are not unusual in the exercise of public responsibility. It is important that
  staff and the University are able to recognise, declare and manage conflicts of interest and situations
  where there is a potential or perceived conflict of interest.
(i) Identifying conflicts of interest
University officers must ensure that there is no actual or perceived conflict between their personal
  interests and their University duties or responsibilities. The expectation is that officers must recognise,
  declare and manage conflicts of interest. A conflict of interest exists where:
the officer's private interests are within the scope and ambit of their duties or role as a University
    officer (actual conflicts of interest); or
a reasonable person, in possession of the relevant facts, would conclude that the officer's private
    interests have the potential to interfere with the proper performance of their University duties
    (perceived or potential conflicts of interest); or
the officer's duty to QUT conflicts with duties or obligations to another organisation (conflicts
    between duties).
Conflicts of interest include, but are not limited to, the following:
Financial interests:
Personal financial interests may include a pecuniary interest in a private
  company, a private business operated outside QUT working hours, or a partnership or business undertaking
  in which a person with whom an officer has a close personal relationship has a material interest as
  a major shareholder, director or principal. An officer must not make decisions or enter into transactions
  on behalf of QUT where these may impact on personal financial interests. An officer must not enter
  into financial transactions with QUT in a private capacity or via a private company, except as permitted
  by University policy.
Examples of financial conflicts of interest
A committee member employed by a company which has dealings with the University
A supervisor involved with subordinate staff in private business arrangements
An academic staff member supervises a research student on a project in which the academic
          staff member has a financial interest in the research results
An academic staff member specifies a book they have written and from which they derive
          royalties as a prescribed text
An academic staff member including a sessional academic undertakes private tutoring
        of QUT students in circumstances where this could reasonably be expected to be part of their normal
        teaching duties
A staff member is a director of a company retained by QUT to undertake a consultancy
Personal relationships:
A conflict of interest exists where an officer's involvement or relationship
  with another person conflicts with their duties or responsibilities to QUT, for example, where an officer
  makes or participates in decisions affecting another person with whom the officer has a personal relationship,
  such as a spouse or partner, relative or family member, friend or personal associate. Decisions may
  relate to academic, assessment, staffing or financial matters. In the academic environment in particular,
  the perception that teaching and assessment are undertaken fairly and impartially is critical to the
  reputation of the University.
A personal history of hostility with another officer or a student may also give rise to a perception
  of a conflict of interest.
Examples of personal conflicts of interest
The spouse or partner of a manager applies for a position in the same department or
          school
An academic staff member teaches a friend or relative
A staff member develops a sexual relationship with a student where the staff member
          has the potential to influence outcomes for that student
A supervisor develops a close personal relationship with a subordinate staff member
Personal benefits:
A conflict will arise where an officer stands to gain a personal benefit
  or advantage (such as the maintenance or enhancement of personal or professional reputation or the
  receipt of a personal benefit such as a gift). Gifts or benefits may be perceived as inducements to
  act in a particular way, thus creating real or apparent conflicts of interest. This type of conflict
  of interest situation will also arise when the advantage or benefit will be conferred on a person with
  whom the officer has a close personal relationship.
Examples of personal benefits creating conflict of interest situations
A staff member responsible for purchasing consumables receives a gift from a sales
          representative of a supplier company
An academic manager is asked to audit the performance of a research project if they
          are or have been an investigator or participant on the project
Conflicts between duties to QUT and other organisations:
A conflict may also arise where
  a University officer, commonly a committee member, is an officer at another organisation which may
  be commercially involved with QUT, which makes decisions which impact on QUT or which could be regarded
as in competition with QUT (Appendix 2 Council Procedure 1 - Committees).
Officers may also be members of political parties, professional or other interest or charitable groups
  and, while engagement with the broader community is generally encouraged, such involvement with other
  organisations must not be allowed to conflict with University duties.
Example of conflicts between duties
A committee member is a government official in an agency which has responsibility
          for some aspect of policy affecting the University
An academic staff member teaches at another university
(ii) Declaring and managing conflict of interest situations
It is important that conflict of interest situations, once recognised, are declared and resolved in
  a way which promotes propriety and integrity. Consequently, as soon as a University officer becomes
  aware of an actual conflict of interest or a situation which gives rise to a potential or perceived
  conflict of interest, they must take steps to declare and resolve that conflict situation.
In the case of committee members, the appropriate processes for disclosing and resolving the conflict
are described in Appendix 2 Council Procedure 1 - Committees.
A staff member facing a conflict of interest situation (whether actual, potential or perceived) must
  notify their supervisor in writing. Sufficient information should be provided to enable that officer
  to understand the nature and seriousness of the conflict situation, but the supervisor has a responsibility
  to manage the privacy aspects with appropriate care. In the case of conflicts of interest related to
  research, the conflict situation should also be declared to the relevant officer specified in the QUT
  Code of Conduct for Research (see 
D/2.6.7
The supervisor is responsible for assessing the conflict situation and QUT's risk exposure. This assessment
  should take into account community perceptions (even where no actual conflict is found to exist), reputational
  risk to QUT, potential legal exposure and relevant public accountability requirements (such as Financial
  Management Standards or State Procurement Policy) and University policies and procedures. In some cases,
  the supervisor may need to seek advice from another senior staff member.
Where a conflict of interest exists, the senior officer should identify, in consultation with the
  staff member, appropriate strategies to manage the situation. The strategies decided upon must be documented.
Merely declaring the conflict situation without taking further steps to resolve the situation will
  almost always be insufficient. It may be necessary to remove the staff member from any involvement
  in the matter giving rise to the conflict situation. However, there may be occasions where this may
  not be feasible (for example, where a research project or student supervision relies on a staff member's
  specific expertise), and in these cases, continued involvement by the staff member must occur only
  where sufficient supervision, control or accountability mechanisms are put in place. Strategies may
  include restricting the staff member's involvement in the matter and recruiting a disinterested third
  party to oversee part or all of the processes involved in the matter. Again, these measures must be
  documented.
A staff member may also choose to relinquish the private interest that gives rise to the conflict.
Examples
An academic staff member who specifies a book they have written as a prescribed text first consults
    with peers as to the appropriateness of the choice of text, notifies the head of school and obtains
    approval from the head of school for its use.
A staff member responsible for purchasing consumables who receives a gift from a supplier complies
    with the University's policy on staff gifts and benefits (see 
G/2.3
After disclosure by a research student's supervisor of a personal financial interest in the research
    project, the head of school makes arrangements for independent monitoring of the student's progress.
An officer who develops a sexual relationship with a student notifies the relevant senior manager
    and ceases any decision-making role in respect of this student.
University officers are expected to place entries on the appropriate conflict of interest register
  as required by relevant University policies and procedures (see Appendix 2 Council Procedure 1 - Committees
for
  the register of disclosed interests, 
D/2.6.7
regarding
  the research conflicts of interest register and 
G/2.3
for
  the register of significant and reportable gifts).
b) Avoiding improper use of position
Improper use of an officer's position with QUT includes actions which may result in detriment to QUT
  or which result in real, potential or apparent advantage to an officer, or any other person or organisation.
For instance, by virtue of their position or role at QUT, University officers have access to confidential
  or private information or information not generally available. This information must only be used for
  legitimate University purposes.
The nature of student-staff interactions, and the role of supervisors and managers, place many staff
  in a position of power over other staff and students. This imbalance of power creates the potential
  for undue influence of the student or more junior staff member, due to age or other factors such as
  the capacity to influence outcomes. In particular, the development of sexual relationships where a
  power imbalance exists creates the potential for abuse of position and for conflicts of interests.
  A position of power must not be abused and staff must use their official position properly and honestly.
Example
Staff who have access to information about other staff or students should protect the confidentiality
    of that information and use it only for legitimate University purposes.
An academic staff member must not offer a student an improved grade in exchange for sexual favours.
c) Adhering to principles of research integrity
Research is a core function of the University and research integrity ensures that QUT's research output
  contributes to knowledge, scholarship and community needs. Staff must adhere to the principles outlined
  in the QUT Code of Conduct for Research (see  
D/2.6
  These principles relate to responsible and accepted research methodology and practice, research collaboration
  and authorship, and the role of staff who provide research training as supervisors of research students
  or trainees.
Examples
Appropriate recognition should be given to the work of all participants in research projects.
Data and observations should not be distorted or omitted to fit pre-conceived conclusions.
All published material must be properly referenced or attributed to the appropriate authority and
    plagiarism must not occur.
Research commercialisation issues:
Academic staff may develop intellectual property during
  their research at QUT which is suitable for commercialisation via a spin-off company. Ownership of
  intellectual property is determined in accordance with QUT's intellectual property policy (see 
D/3.1
  and structured arrangements for the creation of spin-off companies must be developed. The academic
  staff concerned will have a financial interest in the spin-off company, however, share acquisition
  by the supervisor of the relevant academic staff or by other staff of the University must not occur
  until the spin-off company is publicly listed.
When research is contracted back to QUT by the spin-off company (to improve or develop the intellectual
  property), there must be a clear delineation between research for the company and related research
  at QUT (in terms of staff and physical location, infrastructure, etc) to avoid potential conflicts
  of interest or breaches of confidentiality arrangements. Further advice on these arrangements may be
  obtained from the Office of Commercial Services.
d) Reducing fraud, corruption or maladministration
Corrupt or fraudulent conduct is not tolerated at QUT. QUT's corruption and fraud control policy (see B/8.6
  outlines activities and responsibilities which reduce the risk of such conduct at the University.
University officers have the responsibility to report suspected fraud, corrupt conduct or maladministration
  of which they become aware to appropriate University and/or external authorities. Procedures for doing
  so are described in the statement on official misconduct (see 
B/8.2
  and QUT's whistleblower's protection management policy (see
B/8.3
Example
A staff member who becomes aware that a colleague is misusing University resources must draw the situation
    to the attention of a senior manager.
Top 
8.1.7 Diligence 
This ethical principle requires University officers to exercise proper care and attention in performing
  their University activities and to carry out their duties to the best of their ability. University
  officers are expected to seek high standards in teaching, research, community service, administration
  or governance. QUT's organisational values promoting responsiveness, informed decision-making and health
  and safety in the conduct of work and study are consistent with this ethical principle.
a) Acting in a professional and conscientious manner
University officers are expected to carry out their duties in a professional, responsible and conscientious
  manner, and to be accountable for their conduct and decisions.
Staff should maintain their professional skills and keep up-to-date the knowledge associated with
  their area of work or scholarship. Staff should be aware of the performance standards expected of them
  for their duties.
Example
Committee members should undertake adequate preparation prior to meetings, to enable them to effectively
    participate in discussion or decision-making.
Staff should not involve students in staffing issues which do not directly affect their studies.
Academic staff members should ensure that assessment is based on pre-determined and clearly articulated
    criteria and standards, should communicate these to students before assessment and should be able
    to justify the grade allocated to a student on the basis of these criteria (Assessment
C/5.1
b) Exercising proper care and attention
University officers have a responsibility to exercise due care in undertaking their activities, especially
  where information or advice will be relied upon by others.
University officers must ensure that personal use of alcohol or other drugs does not affect their
  performance or the safety or well-being of others and staff should not perform duties whilst under
  the influence of alcohol or drugs which will affect performance (see the University's policy on the
  use of alcohol at  
H/3.6.4
University staff must not allow outside work or activities to interfere with the performance of their
  University duties. For the University's policy on private outside work and consultancies (see  
D/7)
Examples
Staff should ensure that information they provide to students or other staff members is accurate,
    complete, timely and within their area of expertise.
An academic staff member should ensure that assessment results are allocated carefully and objectively
    and are properly moderated.
An academic staff member undertaking approved private practice or consultancies must make sufficient
    time available for student consultation outside scheduled classes.
A full-time academic staff member must not hold an active position within a private company or partnership
    without approval from their supervisor.
c) Creating a safe working environment
All staff have an obligation to follow safe work practices, to avoid actions which may harm themselves
  or others and to report hazards in the work environment (for greater detail on health and safety requirements,
  see the University's health and safety policies at  
A/9
  In addition, managers and supervisors are responsible, within the limits of their authority, for ensuring
  that activities within their area are undertaken with the exercise of proper diligence for the health
  and safety of staff, students and others.
Example
Staff working in a laboratory should ensure that safety standards are complied with at all times,
    and that students using the laboratory are also given adequate safety instruction.
A staff member who works at a computer should use a workstation set-up which is ergonomically appropriate.
A supervisor must address repetitive work and manual handling tasks for their staff.
Staff must receive adequate training on health and safety issues relevant to their work.
Top 
8.1.8 Economy and Efficiency 
In line with QUT's values which promote an efficiently managed environment, this ethical principle
  requires University officers to ensure that University resources are used economically and efficiently
  and in a manner and for purposes consistent with the University's goals and priorities.
a)
Using resources for University purposes
All officers have a responsibility to ensure that University resources are used only for legitimate
  purposes and are not wasted or abused, and that expenditure is consistent with University policy and
  appropriately authorised. Guidance on appropriate financial and asset management is found in the MOPP
Chapter G
) and in the 
Financial  Management Practices and Procedures Manual
. Staff are encouraged to identify and report to supervisors areas of duplication
  and other obviously inefficient practices or procedures.
Staff must comply with QUT's policy on use of University resources and intellectual property when
  undertaking private outside work (see  
D/7.1
Example
Email and internet activity by staff should be conducted in a professional way for legitimate business
  and professional purposes (see 
F/1.11).
A staff member must not use information, data or intellectual property generated in the course of
    their QUT employment for private outside work (except as permitted by QUT's intellectual property
    policy  
D/3.1
Managers should make operating budgets available for open and accountable discussion.
b) Safeguarding University property
All staff are expected to treat University property with due care and to ensure that it is secured
  against theft and misuse.
Example
A staff member must not remove University equipment from the campus, except where it is approved
    in accordance with University policy (see 
  Financial  Management Practices and Procedures Manual).
Staff should lock or secure office areas when unattended.
Staff or officers using a QUT computer access account must keep their password secure and comply
  with other specified security measures (see 
F/1.11).
Top 
Related Documents 
MOPP B/8.6 Corruption and fraud control policy
Register of Disclosed Interest Procedures
Top 
Modification History 
Date
Sections
Source
Details
  15.09.10
  All
  Governance Services
  Policy revised to reflect repeal of Information Facilities Rules
23.02.05
All
Council
Revised Code of Conduct (endorsed by Planning and Resources Committee 09.02.05)
03.09.03
B/8.1.6
Council
Added new moral rights clause
Top 
    Chapter A | Chapter B | Chapter C | Chapter D | Chapter E | Chapter F | Chapter G | Chapter H | Chapter I | Appendices | Protocol for MOPP Policy | Recent Updates
    QUT Home | MOPP Home
    CRICOS No. 00213J
    Privacy | Copyright | Accessibility
    Last modified 28-Oct-2010
    Contact us | Feedback | Disclaimer
