QUT | MOPP | B/9.3 Performance planning and review for senior staff
            QUT&nbsp;Home
          Contact&nbsp;us
          Search
      MOPP Home
      Protocol for MOPP Policy
      Recent Updates
      B/9.3 Performance planning and review for senior staff
Chapters
A - Governance/Organisation
B - Human Resources
C - Learning/Teaching
D - Research/Development
E - Student Administration
F - Information Management
G - Financial Management
H - Physical Facilities
I - International/Community
MOPP Appendices
MOPP Protocol
MOPP Updates
[Print-friendly version]
Contact OfficerManager, Policy Planning and Workplace Relations, HR 
Approval Date02/06/2004 
Approval AuthorityCouncil 
Date of Next Review01/07/2009 
9.3.1 Application 
9.3.2 Objectives 
9.3.3 Roles and responsibilities 
9.3.4 The PPR-SS cycle 
9.3.5 Performance planning 
9.3.6 Annual performance review 
9.3.7 Performance pay 
9.3.8 Performance Pay Committee / Chancellor's Committee 
9.3.9 Survey feedback on leadership performance 
9.3.10 Renewal of fixed term appointments 
9.3.11 Performance agreement documentation 
9.3.12 Resolution of disputes arising from performance planning and review discussions 
9.3.13 Review of performance pay salary movement decisions 
9.3.14 Social justice 
9.3.15 Training for PPR-SS 
Related Documents 
Modification History 
The Performance Planning and Review - Senior Staff (PPR-SS) cycle features 
  a series of formal discussions between senior staff and their supervisors with 
  the aim to plan and review performance on an annual basis. A performance pay 
  scheme was incorporated into the PPR-SS scheme from 2000.
The formal PPR-SS discussions will involve the following:
performance agreements for each twelve-month period which are negotiated 
    and agreed upon;
development plans for each twelve-month period to assist in the achievement 
    of work performance and career-related goals negotiated and agreed upon;
a performance review where a senior staff member and supervisor confer 
    on the degree to which agreed responsibilities and performance indicators 
    in the performance agreement have been achieved;
a recommendation by the supervisor on the senior staff member's overall 
    level of performance during the PPR-SS cycle, and 
a recommendation on the amount of salary movement 
        if the senior staff member is within a Senior Staff Group (SSG) range 
        and the performance is deemed to be satisfactory;
a recommendation on the percentage of performance bonus pay where performance 
        is deemed to be above satisfactory; and
a recommendation, where appropriate, for the renewal of a fixed term 
        appointment.
Top 
9.3.1 Application 
The PPR-SS applies to the following categories of staff:
all positions classified at levels SSG1-SSG6;
Vice-Chancellor.
Top 
9.3.2 Objectives 
(a) Performance objectives
The PPR-SS process has the following performance objectives:
to promote sound communication channels at upper management levels;
to align senior staff member's performance expectations with University 
    and unit level strategic and operational priorities;
to provide regular forums for feedback and to provide opportunities for 
    senior staff to identify career options and plans;
to determine the development needs of the senior staff group and provide 
    a mechanism for the continuous development of this group;
to provide a mechanism to review performance in terms of mutually agreed 
    expectations and to link the development of senior staff members to University-wide 
    and faculty/divisional objectives and initiatives.
(b) Performance pay objectives
The PPR-SS process has the following performance pay objectives:
to provide the capacity to recognise and reward enhanced levels of achievement;
to establish clear linkages between planning, performance agreements and 
    remuneration outcomes;
to promote greater supervisor involvement in the salary setting process;
to support the development of a performance culture at QUT.
Top 
9.3.3 Roles and responsibilities 
(a) Senior staff member
The PPR-SS process is a participative process in which the senior staff member and supervisor share the responsibility for the development and the review of the performance agreement. This requires the senior staff member to participate actively in the planning and development of performance objectives and the criteria used for reviewing these objectives.
(b) Supervisor
The supervisor refers to the officer to whom the position reports. In addition to being responsible for initiating and maintaining the PPR-SS process, the supervisor is required to:
determine, together with the senior staff member, performance objectives and the criteria to be used in assessing these objectives;
review the performance of the senior staff member in line with set criteria;
make a recommendation to the authorising officer on salary movement for those senior staff (SSG1-SSG4) within a salary range;
make a recommendation to the authorising officer on performance bonus pay for senior staff;
make a recommendation, where appropriate, to the authorising officer, on renewal of a fixed term appointment.
In relation to the Vice-Chancellor, the Chancellor is responsible for undertaking the role of supervisor and making recommendations direct to Chancellor's Committee.
(c) Authorising Officer
The authorising officer is the head of an organisational area, usually the executive dean of faculty / head of division or otherwise nominated officer.
The responsibilities of the authorising officer are to:
consider recommendations from the supervisor and determine the payment and amount of salary movement for eligible senior staff
consider recommendations from the supervisor on the payment and amount of bonus pay and forward recommendation to the Performance Pay Committee or Chancellor's Committee as appropriate;
oversee the supervisor's responsibilities with respect to the PPR-SS process;
facilitate the early resolution of disputes regarding performance, planning and review discussions;
facilitate the review of salary movement decisions when appropriate.
(d) Performance Pay Committee
The central role of the Performance Pay Committee is to consider recommendations and make annual determinations on the level of performance pay bonuses for eligible senior staff (SSG1-SSG5). The Committee also has a role in reviewing salary movement decisions as and when required.
(e) Chancellor's Committee
Chancellor's Committee considers recommendations and makes annual determinations on the level of performance pay bonuses for the Vice-Chancellor and eligible senior staff (SSG6).
Top 
9.3.4 The PPR-SS cycle 
The elements of the PPR-SS cycle comprise:
Initiating the process
Performance planning meeting
Negotiating performance agreement
Intermediate review (optional)
Annual performance review
Subsequent decision / actions
Regular intermediate reviews can occur if requested by the senior staff member 
  being reviewed (for example, if the priorities or expectations were changing) 
  or by the supervisor (for example, the reviewee is on probation, or if a problem 
  regarding performance has been identified).
The PPR-SS cycle will apply uniformly to all participating in the scheme as 
  follows:
Categories of Staff
PPR-SS Stages
Timing
Senior staff SSG1-SSG6
Vice-Chancellor
Performance planning includes negotiation of performance agreement
January or February of each year
Senior staff SSG1-SSG6
Vice-Chancellor
Intermediate review (optional)
March to December of each year
Senior staff SSG1-SSG6
Vice-Chancellor
Annual performance review meeting
January to February of each year
Senior staff SSG1-SSG4 only
Salary movement decision as part of Annual review
Decision within a month of Annual Performance Review meeting
Senior staff SSG1-SSG6
Vice-Chancellor
Performance bonus process
Determination of performance bonus payment
March of each year
April of each year
Top 
9.3.5 Performance planning 
Performance planning initiates the PPR-SS cycle and involves senior staff and their supervisors negotiating and finalising a performance agreement for the PPR-SS cycle. It includes negotiating a development plan to help meet agreed objectives for the next twelve-month period.
Supervisors and senior staff need to determine a suitable process of meetings to develop and agree upon the performance agreement.
A suggested process for performance planning follows.
Step 1 Initiating the process
The supervisor is responsible for initiating the performance planning discussions with the senior staff member for each twelve-month period. For newly appointed senior staff, the Human Resources Director advises the senior staff member via the appointment letter, that a performance agreement needs to be established with the relevant supervisor.
Step 2 Preparation for planning meeting
The supervisor meets with his/her manager, (for example, the Vice-Chancellor, Deputy Vice-Chancellor, head of division or executive dean of faculty as appropriate) to clarify performance expectations for the relevant senior staff position.
The supervisor then arranges an initial meeting with the senior staff member. Prior to this meeting, the supervisor and staff member should obtain a copy of the duty statement/position description for the position, the QUT Institutional Plan and the relevant faculty/division and school/department strategic and operational plans (see 
A/2.2
Step 3 Initial meeting
At the initial meeting between the supervisor and senior staff member, performance is broadly reviewed and feedback provided. The initial review should be based on the duty statement as well as outputs and outcomes for the previous 12 months or since the last review of performance. Priorities and expectations for the next twelve-month period should then be discussed.
It is important, during the initial discussions, that the expectations and desired outcomes of both parties are clarified and agreed upon as this sets the framework for the annual performance review.
In some instances the supervisor may ask the senior staff member to prepare a draft performance agreement, based on initial discussions, to be negotiated and finalised at a subsequent meeting.
Step 4 Developing performance agreement
Performance agreements usually incorporate the key responsibilities (or accountabilities) for the position based on the position duty statement, performance expectations and strategic priorities. A format for the performance agreement should be clarified and agreed upon.
Performance agreements may also include performance indicators, which ideally refer to both outputs and outcomes of performance. Performance indicators are informed by relevant strategic and operational plans. Performance indicators should also, where possible, identify measures that can be used to determine how a key responsibility has been met. Such measures may include the outcomes of leadership surveying (see below) and Operational Performance Targets (OPT).
During discussions regarding the desired outcomes the supervisor should clearly identify the standards of performance required to achieve an assessment of satisfactory level of performance.
The responsibilities of heads of school include both academic and management responsibilities. These dual responsibilities require careful consideration when preparing the performance agreement.
Senior staff performance agreements need to be tailored for particular roles and focus on strategic priorities for the position. However, the following items (termed accountabilities) are likely to be included in all performance agreements for senior staff members at QUT:
contributing to faculty/division management and budget operations to achieve QUT policies, priorities and objectives and to accord with legal requirements;
ensuring that a high level of responsible leadership is provided to the faculty/division;
ensuring that performance management processes operate effectively for all senior staff positions that report to the position; and
contributing to the achievement of QUT's social justice objectives (eg equal employment opportunity strategies).
Upon development of the performance agreement, the Agreement must be signed by both the supervisor and the senior staff member.
Step 5 Personal development plan
A discussion of appropriate development activities is undertaken once the performance objectives for the following period have been negotiated and agreed upon by the senior staff member and supervisor. It involves discussion and identification of the senior staff member's development needs in light of the performance agreement and long-term career goals. The performance agreement provides for a personal development plan that identifies agreed development activities for the following period, and specific faculty/or other University sources of resource support.
In the latter part of any renewal of the contracted period where a senior staff member has indicated an intention not to seek a managerial appointment again, development planning can be directed to assist the staff member to pursue an alternative career path in the University.
Step 6 Changes to position descriptions
For non-academic managers, where changes to a position are identified as part of the performance planning process, the position description should be updated and a copy forwarded to the Human Resources Department (Client Services) for inclusion on the incumbent's personal file.
Top 
9.3.6 Annual performance review 
Progress towards performance plans will (at a minimum) be reviewed annually. More frequent performance reviews may be beneficial in some instances, especially where a senior staff member is in a new position or where priorities are changing rapidly.
The period of review for the purpose of the annual performance review and performance pay is the previous calendar year.
Annual performance reviews address the following issues:
discuss progress towards agreed achievements or outcomes;
review and update performance agreements to account for changing work priorities or changes in resources;
review and update development plans;
provide opportunity for structured feedback;
inform recommendations on salary movement for those senior staff (SSG1-SSG4) at a salary point within a salary range (see 
B/9.3.7
(b));
inform recommendations on the percentage of bonus pay for senior staff (SSG1-SSG6) and Vice-Chancellor (see 
B/9.3.7
(c))
inform recommendations to the relevant authorising officer, where appropriate, on renewal of fixed term appointments.
Items to be discussed in any annual performance review meeting between the senior staff member and his/her supervisor will typically include the following:
the senior staff member's specific performance achievements as a senior staff member to date;
the senior staff member's and the University's priorities for the next twelve-month period and the indicators by which the achievement of these priorities will be assessed;
the senior staff member's tentative plans for the future (eg long service leave, a further appointment, new role, retirement, return to substantive position);
discussion and identification of any development priorities for the senior staff member in line with the above demands.
Following the completion of the annual performance review the supervisor and senior staff member should sign the completed document.
Where performance is assessed by the supervisor as less than satisfactory, the supervisor will indicate this on the PPR-SS Action form and pursue with the staff member the recommended strategies as outlined in the Managing Unsatisfactory Performance policy (see 
B/9.5
Top 
9.3.7 Performance pay 
(a) Eligibility
The performance pay scheme incorporates two mechanisms for performance payments - salary movement and performance bonus. To be eligible for salary movement and performance bonus a senior staff member must work in the position for at least nine months of their PPR-SS cycle. Recommendations in circumstances when the senior staff member has worked for less than nine months of their PPR-SS cycle will only be approved in exceptional circumstances.
Exceptional circumstances may include new appointees to senior staff positions who have completed less than nine months of their PPR-SS cycle and who are able to demonstrate sufficient achievement against agreed objectives. All periods of approved paid leave are defined as time worked in the position.
(b) Salary movement (SSG1-SSG4)
Subject to B/9.3.7(a) senior staff (SSG1-SSG4) who are positioned at a salary point within a range are eligible for salary movement.
As part of the annual performance review the supervisor will consider the performance objectives achieved
  throughout the 12 month period and recommend an amount of salary movement to be awarded to the senior
staff member.
Recommendations on the amount of salary movement will be based solely on the performance of the staff
  member.
Following the annual performance review meeting where the supervisor decides that performance is satisfactory
(or better) a recommendation to increase the base salary of the senior staff member within the salary
range for that position will be made to the authorising officer. The authorising officer will consider
the recommendation and hold discussions with the supervisor if required. The authorising officer will
consider recommendations taking into account a staff member's overall level of performance and relativities
across senior staff within the Division/Faculty.
Within a month of the performance review meeting the authorising officer will finalise the decision regarding the overall performance rating (above satisfactory, satisfactory, not satisfactory and unsatisfactory) and the amount of salary movement and advise the supervisor of the outcome. The supervisor will meet with the senior staff member to provide feedback on the level of performance and to inform them of the salary movement decision.
Any adjustment to base salary will take effect as of 1 January in the year the decision on salary movement is made.
See below for review mechanism for salary movement decisions.
Performance pay as a result of salary movement will be an addition to the base salary for the staff member. It will be superannuable and subject to the terms of the Flexible Remuneration Scheme (see section 
B/6.6
(c) Bonus pay
Subject to B/9.3.7(a) all senior staff (SSG1-SSG6) and the Vice-Chancellor are eligible for a performance bonus.
In recommending and determining the size of a bonus payment two factors are considered; the staff member's individual performance as outlined in the performance agreement for the previous 12 month period and the relevant organisational unit's performance over the same period. The relevant organisational unit (ie University, faculty/division, school/department) is the level above the location of the senior staff member. For example, a head of school's individual performance is assessed combined with the performance of the faculty.
The performance of the relevant organisational unit is determined as follows:
University - determined by the Vice-Chancellor
faculty - determined by the Vice-Chancellor on advice of the Deputy Vice-Chancellor (Academic)
division - determined by the Vice-Chancellor
school / department - determined by executive dean of faculty / head of division.
As part of the annual performance review the supervisor will consider the performance objectives achieved throughout the 12 month period. Where the supervisor determines that the performance by the senior staff member during this period exceeds a satisfactory level, ie high or exceptional, the supervisor will:
make a recommendation regarding the percentage of bonus pay to be awarded to the senior staff member;
send the recommendation on bonus pay to the authorising officer along with any supporting documentation (for example, documentation could include a one page summary of achievements completed by the senior staff member).
The authorising officer will consider the recommendation and hold further discussions with the supervisor if required. The authorising officer will then forward the final recommendation (PPR-SS Action form) to the Performance Pay Committee or Chancellor's Committee as appropriate.
The range of bonus payments available for the duration of the 
QUT Employee Collective Agreement (Senior Staff) 2009-2012
is
0-10% of the senior staff member's total remuneration salary.
Bonus  payments are one-off payments made as a lump sum, awarded each year, are non-superannuable and subject
 to PAYG tax. A staff member may elect to salary sacrifice all or a percentage of their bonus payment
 into their relevant superannuation fund. This election must be made prior to the period during which
 the bonus payment is earned.
(d) Bonus pay - exceptional circumstances
In exceptional circumstances the Vice-Chancellor may award a one-off bonus payment in excess of 10% to a maximum of 20% of the senior staff member's total remuneration salary as part of / or outside of the staff member's annual performance planning and review cycle.
Exceptional circumstances under this provision mean where a senior staff member, through outstanding performance, contributes significantly to the University's position as a leading teaching and research provider.
The Vice-Chancellor will consult with members of the Performance Pay Committee or Chancellor's Committee as appropriate in making a decision to award such a one-off bonus payment.
Bonus payments made under this provision are one-off payments made as a lump sum, are awarded at the time of the decision by the Vice-Chancellor, are non-superannuable / non-salary sacrificeable and subject to PAYG tax.
Top 
9.3.8 Performance Pay Committee / Chancellor's Committee 
The Performance Pay Committee comprises the Vice-Chancellor, the Deputy-Vice-Chancellor (Academic), and the Registrar.
The Performance Pay Committee's role is to:
consider recommendations from the authorising officers on performance bonus payments for senior staff (SSG1-SSG5);
decide on the percentage performance bonus payments available to eligible senior staff members;
consider the awarding of bonus pay in exceptional circumstances under 
B/9.3.7
(d); and
review decisions regarding salary movement as necessary (see below).
The Committee will consider all recommendations on bonus payments for the senior staff group in light
  of individual achievement, corporate achievements for the preceding twelve month period, affordability,
  parity across the senior staff group, as well as any other relevant information such as reclassification
of a position.
The Chancellor's Committee (see 
A/3.4
  role is to:
consider recommendations and make annual determinations on the level of performance pay bonuses for the Vice-Chancellor and eligible senior staff (SSG6), and
consider the awarding of bonus pay in exceptional circumstances to senior staff (SSG6) under 
B/9.3.7
(d).
The Committee will advise supervisors of its decision. There will be no further review of the supervisor's
recommendation to the Committee.
Top 
9.3.9 Survey feedback on leadership performance 
Senior staff members with supervisory responsibility are required to undertake 
  a Quality Leadership Profile (QLP) as part of PPR-SS. The QLP should be utilised 
  twice in a five-year period (eg in the case of fixed term staff, two years into 
  a contract and in the fourth year prior to review). The QLP helps inform performance 
  planning and review discussions at the appropriate times. The Human Resources 
  Department coordinates the QLP process. Senior staff members should contact 
  the Senior HR Officer (SMDP) for further information on QLP.
Top 
9.3.10 Renewal of fixed term appointments 
A senior staff member may or may not be appointed for an additional term of office in the senior staff
position when their fixed term appointment expires.
At least six months prior to expiration of a fixed term appointment, the Human Resources Director will
write to the senior staff member seeking advice as to whether the senior staff member is seeking a renewal
of his/her contract. The senior staff member will provide this written advice to the Human Resources
Director within three weeks.
Where a senior staff member seeks a further appointment, the Human Resources Director will request
    from the supervisor a recommendation to the authorising officer regarding the offer of a further
    appointment. His recommendation will be based upon the needs of the University and the on-going performance
    achievements of the senior staff member during the fixed term appointment, with specific reference
    to documentation arising from the annual performance review meeting conducted with the staff member.
    Where necessary, the supervisor may need to meet with the senior staff member to gather additional
information in support of the final recommendation.
In some instances the timing of the fixed term appointment renewal process may not coincide with the
PPR-SS cycle. In such cases the supervisor should be aware ahead of time, of the fixed term appointment
end date and take this into consideration when completing the PPR-SS process.
Executive deans of faculty / heads of division approve renewal of fixed term appointments to senior
    staff positions (SSG1 - SSG3) and the Vice-Chancellor approves renewal of fixed term appointments to
senior staff positions (SSG4 - SSG6). Council approves renewal of the position of Vice-Chancellor.
Top 
9.3.11 Performance agreement documentation 
At the completion of a PPR-SS cycle, the Performance Agreement and PPR-SS Action 
  form will be filed on the appropriate file in the Human Resources Department.
Aggregated development data sourced from personal development plans may be 
  made available upon request to organisers of the QUT Senior Management Development 
  Program within the Human Resources Department.
Top 
9.3.12 Resolution of disputes arising from performance planning and review discussions 
In the situation where a negotiated performance agreement is not forthcoming 
  in discussions between the supervisor and senior staff member, either party 
  may seek the assistance of the supervisor's manager to help reach a mutually 
  acceptable performance agreement. The supervisor's manager may meet with either 
  or both parties to clarify and resolve the issues. QUT Council acts as the final 
  board of review for disputes arising from the PPR-SS scheme.
Top 
9.3.13 Review of performance pay salary movement decisions 
Where a staff member has concerns regarding the process undertaken by the supervisor 
  to assess performance and/or perceives bias in the decision on salary movement 
  within the ranges, the following process will apply.
Step 1: The senior staff member will notify their supervisor of their concerns 
  and an attempt will be made to resolve the matter.
Step 2: If an attempt to resolve the matter at the local level has already 
  been made and a resolution has not been achieved, the matter will be referred 
  to the supervisor's manager as appropriate.
Step 3: If the issue remains unresolved the matter will be referred to the 
  Performance Pay Committee. The senior staff member will indicate in writing 
  to the committee the grounds for the decision to be reviewed. The Performance 
  Pay Committee will advise its decision, in writing, to all parties involved. 
  Where a member of the Performance Pay Committee has been involved in the process 
  outlined in Steps 1 and 2 above, the committee member will be absented from 
  the committee. The Performance Pay Committee's decision will be final.
Top 
9.3.14 Social justice 
All aspects of PPR-SS shall be consistent with QUT's social justice policies (see A/8).
Top 
9.3.15 Training for PPR-SS 
The University will provide to supervisors and senior staff members training 
  or briefings relevant to all aspects of PPR-SS.
Top 
Related Documents 
B/12.16 Senior Management Development Program
QUT Employee Collective Agreement (Senior Staff) 2009-2012
  B/9.5 Managing Unsatisfactory Performance - Senior Staff
Top 
Modification History 
Date
Sections
Source
Details
17.05.06
B/9.3.10
Human Resources Department
Updated policy consistent with Schedule of Authorities and Delegations (approval and confirmation
        of appointments at SSG levels)
06.07.05
B/9.3.7, B/9.3.8
Vice-Chancellor
Revised to reflect provisions of the Certified Agreement Senior Staff (2005 – 2008)
04.03.05
B/9.3.7
Vice-Chancellor
Minor editorial amendment relating to reporting on performance of organisational units
02.06.04
B/9.3.1, B/9.3.3, B/9.3.4, B/9.3.6, B/9.3.7, B/9.3.8, B/9.3.10
Council
Revised policy to include new process for bonus pay for senior staff (endorsed by Chancellor's Committee 21.04.04)
24.06.03
B/9.3.1, B/9.3.4
Vice-Chancellor
Revised in accordance with new policy regarding faculty research centre 
      director appointments (SSG1-SSG6)
29.11.02
B/9.3.7, B/9.3.8
Vice-Chancellor
Revised policy (endorsed by Chancellor's Committee)
14.02.02
All
Vice-Chancellor
Revised policy in accordance with Certified Agreement for Senior Staff 
      2002-2004 (Clause 11)
08.12.99
All
Council
Updated
Top 
    Chapter A | Chapter B | Chapter C | Chapter D | Chapter E | Chapter F | Chapter G | Chapter H | Chapter I | Appendices | Protocol for MOPP Policy | Recent Updates
    QUT Home | MOPP Home
    CRICOS No. 00213J
    Privacy | Copyright | Accessibility
    Last modified 12-May-2010
    Contact us | Feedback | Disclaimer
