QUT | MOPP | B/9.5 Managing unsatisfactory performance - senior staff
            QUT&nbsp;Home
          Contact&nbsp;us
          Search
      MOPP Home
      Protocol for MOPP Policy
      Recent Updates
      B/9.5 Managing unsatisfactory performance - senior staff
Chapters
A - Governance/Organisation
B - Human Resources
C - Learning/Teaching
D - Research/Development
E - Student Administration
F - Information Management
G - Financial Management
H - Physical Facilities
I - International/Community
MOPP Appendices
MOPP Protocol
MOPP Updates
[Print-friendly version]
Contact OfficerPrincipal HR Advisor (Policy and Workplace Relations) 
Approval Date07/09/2009 
Approval AuthorityVice-Chancellor 
Date of Next Review01/09/2012 
9.5.1 Application 
9.5.2 Definitions 
9.5.3 Principles 
9.5.4 Delegation by the Vice-Chancellor 
9.5.5 Procedures 
9.5.6 Relationship with contract renewal 
Related Documents 
Modification History 
This policy outlines the procedures to be used in cases where a senior staff member's performance
becomes unsatisfactory.
The policy builds on the Performance, Planning and Review policy for senior staff (
B/9.3
  It outlines the rights and responsibilities of senior staff and their supervisors, and aims to provide
  opportunities for senior staff, assisted by their supervisors to regain and maintain a satisfactory
  level of performance.
Top 
9.5.1 Application 
This policy applies to senior staff members employed on an ongoing or fixed-term appointment at classification
levels SSG1 to SSG6 inclusive except those employed on a probationary or casual basis.
Top 
9.5.2 Definitions 
Disciplinary Action
means action by the University to discipline a senior staff
member and may include:
formal censure or counselling;
withholding of a salary movement/performance pay bonus;
demotion;
suspension with or without pay;
reallocation of duties; and
termination of employment.
Unsatisfactory Performance Review Committee
is the Committee established by the
  Vice-Chancellor to review unsatisfactory performance. The Unsatisfactory Performance Review Committee
  will comprise:
a Chair who shall be external to the University appointed by the Vice-Chancellor in consultation
    with the senior staff member;
a staff member from within the University chosen by the senior staff member;
a staff member from within the University chosen by the Vice-Chancellor.
Representative
means:
in relation to a senior staff member, a person selected by the senior staff member to assist or
    represent the senior staff member;
in relation to the University, a person who assists or speaks on behalf of the University before
    the Unsatisfactory Performance Review Committee;
and in either case, excludes a person who is currently practising as a solicitor or barrister.
Top 
9.5.3 Principles 
The principles which underlie this policy are as follows:
a) Senior staff have the following rights and responsibilities:
to perform their work at a satisfactory (at least) level;
to know clearly the expectations of their performance;
to receive feedback and advice regarding their performance; and
to make reasonable efforts to improve any unsatisfactory performance.
b) Supervisors have a responsibility to:
make their expectations of senior staff explicit;
provide advice and support to enhance the senior staff member's performance; and
make reasonable adjustments to accommodate individual circumstances.
c) In situations, where the rights and responsibilities of a senior staff member and supervisor have
  been observed, and performance remains unsatisfactory, it is reasonable for the University to take
  disciplinary action, including termination of appointment.
d) Procedures for dealing with unsatisfactory performance should be fair and observe principles of
  natural justice.
e) PPR-SS should be the process within which unsatisfactory performance will be identified and measured,
  and relevant documentation from the PPR-SS process will be made available within the unsatisfactory
  performance process.
f) Procedures for unsatisfactory performance should be timely, particularly  in relation to contract renewal processes which commence 6 months prior to the  expiration of a fixed-term appointment (or three months for fixed-term contracts of  three years or less).
g) Procedures for unsatisfactory performance should be conducted expeditiously but should allow sufficient
  time for senior staff performance to benefit from the advice and support provided by the supervisor.
Top 
9.5.4 Delegation by the Vice-Chancellor 
Despite any reference to the Vice-Chancellor throughout this policy, the Vice-Chancellor may, at any
  time, delegate his/her roles or obligations under this policy to another senior officer of the University.
  The Vice-Chancellor may not delegate his/her role to a senior officer who is directly involved in the
  matter which is the subject of the procedures governed by this policy, or to a senior officer who the
Vice-Chancellor intends to nominate as a member of a committee established under these procedures.
Top 
9.5.5 Procedures 
There are three key phases in the procedures for managing unsatisfactory performance of senior staff:
Phase 1: Identification of unsatisfactory performance and counselling;
Phase 2: Intensive counselling, support and formal review;
Phase 3: Decision on unsatisfactory performance and disciplinary action.
At the end of Phase 1 and Phase 2, there are exit points from the procedures, should performance be
  satisfactory again.
Phases 1 and 2 together should normally take no less than three months and no more than 6 months to
  complete; however, the supervisor has discretion to set appropriate and reasonable timelines based
  on the nature of the job and specific areas of performance that are considered unsatisfactory.
Phase 1: Identification of unsatisfactory performance and counselling.
Where a supervisor identifies the performance of a senior staff member as unsatisfactory, every effort
  must be made to resolve performance issues through guidance, counselling, appropriate staff development,
  and/or appropriate work allocation.
A record of discussions will be kept and a copy supplied to the staff member.
Phase 2: Intensive counselling, support and formal review.
Where a supervisor believes the actions in Phase 1 have not produced the desired improvements in performance
  and that the performance of the staff member continues to be unsatisfactory, the supervisor will:
advise the Human Resources Director; and
advise the senior staff member, in writing, of the following:
the specific areas of performance that are considered unsatisfactory;
the nature of the improvement required;
the time within which such improvement must occur;
the date proposed for a review of the specific areas of performance;
the availability of professional development and other resources to assist the senior staff
        member in improving; and
withholding of salary movement/performance pay bonus.
Where appropriate, the supervisor may direct the staff member to undertake a course of professional
  development or other programs designed to assist in improving performance.
Phase 3: Decision on unsatisfactory performance and disciplinary action
a) Where following the review period in Phase 2, the performance of the staff member is deemed by
  the supervisor as being no longer unsatisfactory, the staff member will be advised in writing and no
  further action will be taken under these procedures.
b) Where following the review period in Phase 2, the supervisor believes that the performance of the
  senior staff member continues to be unsatisfactory, the supervisor will make a formal report to the
  Vice-Chancellor. The report will state clearly the:
aspects of performance that are considered unsatisfactory;
record of attempts to remedy the problem; and
recommended disciplinary action.
The supervisor will provide the senior staff member with a copy of the report at the time it is submitted.
  The senior staff member is entitled to 10 working days from the receipt of the supervisor's report
  to submit a written response to the Vice-Chancellor and may be assisted by a representative in preparing
  this response.
c) Upon receipt of the supervisor's report and any written response from the staff member, the Vice-Chancellor
  will first be satisfied that:
the performance standards expected by the supervisor are reasonable;
appropriate steps have been taken to bring the unsatisfactory nature of the performance
      to the staff member's attention;
adequate opportunity to respond to the supervisor's report was given to the staff
    member;
the response was given due and proper consideration; and
a reasonable opportunity has been provided to remedy the unsatisfactory performance
d) The Vice-Chancellor will then decide to:
take no further action; or
refer the matter back to the supervisor to ensure the matters in c) above have been
    complied with; or
take disciplinary action and decide what that disciplinary action will be in accordance
      with B/9.5.2
The Vice-Chancellor will advise the staff member in writing of any decision made.
e) Where a decision is made to take disciplinary action, the staff member may advise the Vice-Chancellor
  within 10 working days if he/she wishes to refer the matter to an Unsatisfactory Performance
  Review Committee.
f) Where the staff member elects to have the matter referred to an Unsatisfactory Performance Review
  Committee, the Vice-Chancellor will establish a Committee in accordance with B/9.5.2.
g) Where the staff member does not elect to have the matter referred to a Review Committee, the disciplinary
  action will take effect no earlier than five  working days from the date of the Vice-Chancellor's
  written advice.
h)
Request for referral to an Unsatisfactory Performance Review Committee
Where a matter is referred to an Unsatisfactory Performance Review Committee, the Committee shall:
conduct proceedings in private;
take into account all information which it considers relevant to the case, including
      any response(s) by the staff member;
provide the staff member with a copy of all written statements received by the Committee.
interview any person that it considers relevant to the case;
allow the staff member (and where they so choose their Representative) to be present
      during all interviews;
provide parties to the review with a reasonable opportunity to call and question witnesses
      and to present and challenge evidence;
provide the staff member a reasonable opportunity to provide a verbal or written response,
      including to matters raised in written statements, and/or present a submission; and
keep a complete record of proceedings and make the record available to the staff member
      or Vice-Chancellor upon request;
The staff member and the University shall be entitled, where they so choose, to be represented in
  the proceedings before the Unsatisfactory Performance Review Committee by a representative as defined
  in B/9.5.2.
The Unsatisfactory Performance Review Committee will provide the Vice-Chancellor with a written report
  containing its findings on the following matters only:
whether the steps outlined in Phase 3 c) have been followed and/or
the appropriateness of the disciplinary action decided by the Vice-Chancellor.
The Committee shall perform its role as expeditiously as possible and will unless otherwise agreed
  with the Vice-Chancellor, report its findings within 30 days of the Committee being established.
Following consideration of the report from the Committee (which will not be binding on the Vice-Chancellor),
  the Vice-Chancellor will either:
advise the staff member in writing that he/she is satisfied that there has been no unsatisfactory
    performance; or
take disciplinary action and decide what that disciplinary action will be in
      accordance with B/9.5.2 .
The Vice-Chancellor will advise the staff member in writing of any decision made and such decision
  will take effect no earlier than five  working days from the date of the Vice-Chancellor's written
advice.
Nothing in this policy prevents the Vice-Chancellor referring a question of possible unsatisfactory
performance to a supervisor for appropriate action.
The action of the Vice-Chancellor under this policy will be final, except that nothing in this policy
  will be construed as excluding the jurisdiction of any external court or tribunal which, but for this
  policy, would be competent to deal with the matter.
Top 
9.5.6 Relationship with contract renewal 
The process for the renewal of fixed term appointments is set out in Clause
    16.2.2 of the 
QUT Employee Collective Agreement (Senior Staff) 2009-2012
. Should any unsatisfactory performance procedures
      be in train at a date 6 months prior to the contract expiry date, those procedures will cease,
      and the contract renewal process will proceed consistent with the steps outlined in the Agreement.
Top 
Related Documents 
QUT Employee Collective Agreement (Senior Staff) 2009-2012
MOPP B/9.3 Performance Planning and Review - Senior Staff
Top 
Modification History 
Date
Sections
Source
Details
   07.09.09
   All
   Vice-Chancellor
  Policy revised to reflect provisions of the Employee Collective  Agreement (Senior Staff) 2009-2012
17.11.05
All
Vice-Chancellor
Revised policy to comply with Higher Education Workplace Relations Requirements
        (HEWRR)
08.12.99
All
Council
Approved policy, to replace previous by-laws and policies relating to unsatisfactory
        performance
Top 
    Chapter A | Chapter B | Chapter C | Chapter D | Chapter E | Chapter F | Chapter G | Chapter H | Chapter I | Appendices | Protocol for MOPP Policy | Recent Updates
    QUT Home | MOPP Home
    CRICOS No. 00213J
    Privacy | Copyright | Accessibility
    Last modified 12-May-2010
    Contact us | Feedback | Disclaimer
