QUT | MOPP | B/9.7 Evaluating teaching quality
            QUT&nbsp;Home
          Contact&nbsp;us
          Search
      MOPP Home
      Protocol for MOPP Policy
      Recent Updates
      B/9.7 Evaluating teaching quality
Chapters
A - Governance/Organisation
B - Human Resources
C - Learning/Teaching
D - Research/Development
E - Student Administration
F - Information Management
G - Financial Management
H - Physical Facilities
I - International/Community
MOPP Appendices
MOPP Protocol
MOPP Updates
[Print-friendly version]
Contact OfficerManager, Policy Planning and Workplace Relations, HR 
Approval Date23/03/2007 
Approval AuthorityVice-Chancellor 
Date of Next Review01/01/2010 
9.7.1 Principles 
9.7.2 Application 
9.7.3 Student evaluation of teaching 
9.7.4 Outcomes of evaluations 
Related Documents 
Modification History 
9.7.1 Principles 
QUT is committed to providing outstanding learning environments and programs  that lead to excellent outcomes for graduates, enabling them to work in, and  guide, a world characterised by increasing change.
QUT supports and encourages a learning environment of mutual trust,  contributed to by students and academics, which includes authentic assessment  of student performance and evaluation by students of aspects of their learning  environment.
Evaluation is the process used by academic staff to collect and use feedback  on teaching, learning programs and other aspects of the learning environment  from sources such as students and peers.
This policy provides an evaluation framework which emphasises the use of  feedback for continuous improvement within University quality assurance  processes. Evaluation of teaching serves a range of quality improvement, quality  assurance and reward and recognition of teaching quality purposes including:
  confirming to students and the community that QUT is committed to the achievement and maintenance of effective teaching and learning at QUT 
  identifying aspects of teaching and learning programs that are successful and those in need of improvement 
  providing evidence to guide course and unit review decisions 
  informing Performance Planning and Review (PPR) discussions and probation reviews 
  informing decisions related to staff reward and recognition schemes 
  supporting evidence provided by staff contained in applications for staff promotion, and 
  providing evidence for reporting the effectiveness of teaching and learning grant projects.
The QUT evaluation framework avoids reliance on any single source of data by  using University approved evaluation instruments together with other supplementary  but not substitute forms of evaluation. Academic staff covered by this policy  are encouraged to gather feedback on teaching and learning through University  approved evaluation instruments, short, open-ended written response, peer  review, meeting with student representative groups and customised questionnaires.  Students are encouraged and supported in taking up issues directly with their  teachers.
This policy should be read in conjunction with the University's policy on  evaluation of courses, units, teaching and student experience (see C/4.7) which outlines  the current University approved evaluation instruments as well as responsibilities  for implementing the evaluation framework.
The University recognises that a substantial portion of QUT's learning  environment comprises joint, double or cross-faculty initiatives and that  evaluation practices and relevant roles and responsibilities will take account  of such offerings.
Top 
9.7.2 Application 
This policy applies to all academic teaching staff employed on an ongoing  (full-time or part-time), fixed-term or sessional basis who teach undergraduate  units and postgraduate coursework units.
Top 
9.7.3 Student evaluation of teaching 
Student evaluation of teaching is an important part of the University's  approach to the continuous improvement of and support for good teaching.  Feedback on teaching can be collected using a range of methods including  University approved student evaluation surveys and other supplementary methods  of evaluation (eg customised surveys, focus groups, peer review, moderation of  student learning outcomes with tutors). These are not substitutes for the  approved University-wide surveys. In relation to the evaluation of teaching, students  will be invited each teaching period to evaluate their units and their teachers  through a unit based survey instrument. The University approved survey for this  purpose is the Learning Experience Survey (LEX).
The executive dean of faculty or nominee is responsible for identifying the  units and teachers to be evaluated in each teaching period to ensure that all  units offered and the associated QUT staff are evaluated in accordance with policy C/4.7. Executive  deans may, in special circumstances, authorise individual teachers to be exempt  from the evaluation process, for example an invited guest speaker giving a  lecture or lectures, or a practitioner in an off-campus clinical setting.
Additional  feedback on teaching may also be provided through other University approved  survey instruments as detailed in policy C/4.7.
Top 
9.7.4 Outcomes of evaluations 
Consistent with the principle that no single source of feedback should be  relied upon when drawing inferences about the teaching, units or courses,  multiple sources of data should be sought where possible to ensure that the  interpretation of data is valid.
Individual staff members are responsible for analysing and interpreting the  range of feedback available, determining action and planning improvements in  response to feedback appropriate to their roles and responsibilities in policy C/4.7. Unit and  course coordinators are responsible for reflecting on unit and course feedback  and communicating with students about their responses to feedback via the Additional unit information document, and other appropriate unit and course  information.
Results of the evaluations of a unit are provided to the unit coordinator,  their supervisor, relevant course coordinators, the head of school and the  executive dean of faculty and other University and faculty managers as  appropriate.
Results of the evaluation of teaching are provided to the relevant academic  staff member, their supervisor, relevant unit and course coordinators, the head  of school, the executive dean of faculty and other University and faculty  managers as appropriate.
The evaluation feedback, planned responses and/or outcomes of improvements  made, as well as the reporting of responses to students, will be discussed  between the academic staff member and the supervisor as part of the staff  member's PPR discussions and as part of unit and course review discussions.
Where there are joint, double or cross-faculty course and unit offerings,  the discussions in relation to evaluation feedback will necessarily involve  discussions across the relevant organisational areas.
Learning and Teaching Unit supports faculties  in the analysis  and  interpretation of feedback and in the determination and implementation of  appropriate responses to student evaluation.
Top 
Related Documents 
MOPP B/9.2 Performance planning and review for academic staff
MOPP C/4.5 Unit outlines
MOPP  C/4.7 Evaluation of courses, units, teaching and student experience
MOPP C/7.1 High quality teaching
Top 
Modification History 
Date
Sections
Source
Details
  11.02.11
  All
  Governance Services
  Revised terms of reference due to name change from Office of Teaching Quality to Learning and Teaching Unit
   23.03.07 
   All
   Vice-Chancellor
  Revised policy (endorsed by Vice-Chancellor's Advisory  Committee 28.02.07)
29.03.06
All
Vice-Chancellor
New policy (endorsed by Vice-Chancellor's Advisory Committee 22.02.06)
Top 
    Chapter A | Chapter B | Chapter C | Chapter D | Chapter E | Chapter F | Chapter G | Chapter H | Chapter I | Appendices | Protocol for MOPP Policy | Recent Updates
    QUT Home | MOPP Home
    CRICOS No. 00213J
    Privacy | Copyright | Accessibility
    Last modified 09-Feb-2011
    Contact us | Feedback | Disclaimer
