QUT | MOPP | B/9.2 Performance planning and review for academic staff
            QUT&nbsp;Home
          Contact&nbsp;us
          Search
      MOPP Home
      Protocol for MOPP Policy
      Recent Updates
      B/9.2 Performance planning and review for academic staff
Chapters
A - Governance/Organisation
B - Human Resources
C - Learning/Teaching
D - Research/Development
E - Student Administration
F - Information Management
G - Financial Management
H - Physical Facilities
I - International/Community
MOPP Appendices
MOPP Protocol
MOPP Updates
[Print-friendly version]
Contact OfficerPrincipal HR Advisor (Policy and Workplace Relations) 
Approval Date21/12/2010 
Approval AuthorityVice-Chancellor 
Date of Next Review01/03/2014 
9.2.1 Application 
9.2.2 Principles 
9.2.3 Timing 
9.2.4 Definitions 
9.2.5 Roles and Responsibilities 
9.2.6 PPR-AS Cycle 
9.2.7 Subsequent Action 
9.2.8 Documentation 
9.2.9 Training 
9.2.10 Resolution of disputes 
9.2.11 Social justice 
Related Documents 
Modification History
QUT is committed to the implementation of an effective process of Performance Planning and Review
  for Academic Staff (PPR-AS), linked to the achievement of individual, faculty/school and organisational
objectives and initiatives.
The implementation of this process is part of the University's commitment to providing an environment
  in which staff can expect to receive feedback in relation to performance and be encouraged to discuss
  future plans and self-development with their supervisor. The PPR-AS process also requires supervisors
  to provide support, counselling and guidance to staff, and provides a forum in which duties and staff
  development activities are discussed.
The performance management process described below, is a participative process and provides a framework
  for reviewing, developing, recognising and rewarding work performance. The success of this process
  relies on a strong commitment to its implementation by both supervisors and staff.
Top 
9.2.1 Application 
This policy applies to academic staff employed by QUT for more than one year on a full-time or part-time
  basis, either on-going or fixed-term, excluding Senior Staff (SSG1 - SSG6) who are covered by the policy,
Performance Planning and Review - Senior Staff (PPR-SS) (see 
B/9.3
Academic staff
includes research only academic staff, including Senior Principal Research
  Fellows, Principal Research Fellows, Senior Research Fellows, Research Fellows, Postdoctoral Fellows,
  Senior Research Associates and Research Associates (does not include professional staff appointed to
  research only positions).
Staff occupying a position of less than twelve months duration or a sessional position may participate
  in PPR-AS or an abbreviated version of PPR-AS, to be determined by the staff member and supervisor.
  In these circumstances, participation in PPR-AS may be initiated by the staff member or the supervisor.
Top 
9.2.2 Principles 
PPR-AS is concerned with contributing to the achievement of individual, faculty/school and organisational
excellence by facilitating the following
encouraging high levels of performance
providing regular, direct feedback
opportunities for counselling and support
recognising achievements and identification of appropriate rewards
identifying areas of development
improving communication between the staff member and supervisor
providing an opportunity to discuss career plans.
Top 
9.2.3 Timing 
The PPR-AS cycle occurs over a 12 month period. The cycle includes a series of formal discussions
  between the staff member and the supervisor. These discussions provide an opportunity to assess activities,
review performance, provide feedback and plan future activities including development.
The timing of the PPR-AS cycle is determined by the relevant academic unit (faculty/division). Suggested
  time frames include following planning and budgeting processes or coinciding with the anniversary of
  appointment. The timing of the PPR-AS cycle should be such to inform decisions on matters relating
  to incremental progression, probation and renewal of fixed-term appointments.
The nature of the process used for PPR-AS should be discussed between the staff member and their supervisor.
  Consideration will need to be given to both initiating the process and continuing the process in the
  academic unit.
Top 
9.2.4 Definitions 
(a) 'Supervisor'
means the Head of School or another academic staff member above Level C
  nominated by the Vice-Chancellor. Any delegation of the supervisory role in PPR-AS below the level
  of Head of School to another academic staff member must be approved by the Executive Dean and must
  ensure that the PPR-AS process is meaningful. The staff member may request the nomination of an alternative
supervisor. However, an alternative supervisor would need to be agreed by the Executive Dean.
(b) '
Activity Statement
is a document initially prepared by the staff member and agreed
    to by the supervisor which summarises and reviews
planned activities in the areas of achievement, defined as
teaching, performance and leadership
research, scholarship and other creative activity
service / community engagement activity
development needs in light of the planned activities and career goals
performance expectations
reports and evaluations relating to teaching, research and service performance including University
    approved evaluations of teaching
resource requirements and support.
Top 
9.2.5 Roles and Responsibilities 
(a) Staff Member
PPR-AS is a participative process in which the staff member and supervisor mutually develop and agree
  activity statements. This requires that the staff member actively participate in
determining responsibilities, expectations and priorities and how the achievement of these will
    be assessed
identifying areas of development
advising the supervisor of plans for long service leave
drafting the activity statement
assessing achievements against the agreed responsibilities, expectations and priorities.
(b) Supervisor
The supervisor is required to
initiate and maintain PPR-AS for the relevant staff
ensure that the timing of the PPR-AS cycle is such to inform relevant decisions eg probation, incremental
    progression, renewal of fixed-term appointments
provide to the staff member, upon request, relevant plans and documentation (see 
B/9.2.6
determine, together with the staff member, responsibilities, expectations and priorities and how
    the achievement of these will be assessed
assess, together with the staff member, achievements against the agreed responsibilities, expectations
    and priorities including
the results of University approved evaluations of teaching, planned improvements and/or outcomes
      of enacted improvements, and the reporting of improvements to students
research productivity and impact
service contributions and community engagement
determine, together with the staff member, responsibilities, expectations and priorities for the
    following PPR-AS cycle and how the achievement of these will be assessed
discuss and document any issues associated with allocation of workload consistent with clause 34
    Allocation of Workload of the 
QUT
    Enterprise  Agreement (Academic Staff)
where appropriate, raise plans to give notice to the staff member to take long service leave
provide the necessary coaching, support and where appropriate resources
facilitate staff development and career development opportunities in accordance with the activity
    statement
make the relevant decisions/recommendations arising from the review of the responsibilities and
    expectations contained in the activity statement and advise the staff member and Human Resources
    Department accordingly
forward a copy of such decisions/recommendations to the Human Resources Department for actioning.
(c) Human Resources Department
The responsibilities of the Human Resources Department with respect to the PPR-AS include
providing support and advice to supervisors and staff
providing training in PPR-AS for supervisors and staff members
actioning the relevant administrative outcomes arising from PPR-AS as advised by the supervisor
    (ie. probation and renewal of fixed term appointment if appropriate)
providing advice on the training and development actions identified in the plan
facilitating the resolution of conflict or disputes arising from PPR-AS
monitoring the overall effectiveness of the process.
Top 
9.2.6 PPR-AS Cycle 
(a) Initial Planning Discussion and Activity Statement
Responsibility
Action
Supervisor
1) Prepare for initial planning discussion with staff member 
1
2) Obtain relevant plans and documentation (eg. duty statement, position classification standard,
          faculty and school strategic and operation plans, QUT plan, guidelines for the allocation of
          workload with the School)
3) Provide copies of these documents to staff member upon request
Staff member
4)Consult relevant documentation supplied by supervisor
5) Prepare draft activity statement
Supervisor and staff member (joint responsibility)
6) Meet to discuss and develop plans for cycle
7) Discuss draft activity statement
8) Outline plans in an activity statement
9) Record development plans on activity statement
10) Discuss career plans and include on activity statement if desired
11) Record signatures on activity statement (where the supervisor is someone other than the
          Head of School, eg. Professor in school, the activity statement will be ratified by the Head
          of School)
1
For the initial PPR-AS cycle only, the Human Resources Director will advise the supervisor in
  writing that PPR-AS discussions need to occur with the staff member. It is the responsibility of the
  supervisor to initiate all future discussions.
(b) Formal Review
Reviews will occur at least annually. However, more frequent reviews may be beneficial in some instances,
  especially where a staff member is in a new position or where resources and/or priorities are changing.
  The staff member and supervisor will meet to review the current activity statement.
This review will assess achievements against the agreed responsibilities, expectations and priorities
identified at the time of establishing the activity statement. Reviews provide the opportunity to
discuss progress towards goals and activities
review plans to account for changing priorities, changes in resources, whether resources have been
    made available
provide and document feedback on performance including the results of University approved evaluations
    of teaching and identify any areas where performance is not satisfactory
inform decisions on development, probation, incremental progression, promotion, PDP applications,
    renewal of fixed-term appointment if appropriate and other possible outcomes outlined in B/9.2.7.
Responsibility
Action
Supervisor
1) If an academic staff member, other than the Head of School, is to be the supervisor,
        approval must be sought from the Executive Dean for this delegation.
2) If the supervisor is not the Head of School, the supervisor must first consult with the
          Head of School before the review meeting with the staff member.
3) Arrange review meeting with staff member.
4) Provide the staff member with documented feedback on their achievements against the activity
          statement and make known to the staff member their recommendations in relation to the following
          processes, as appropriate:
resources to be provided from the school
offer of further fixed term contract appointment, if appropriate
incremental progression
annual probation reviews, including the final probation review
applications for PDP and/or promotion
initiation of procedures for unsatisfactory performance
Supervisor and Staff member (joint responsibility)
5) Complete the item titled 
Confirmation of performance feedback discussions 
6) Commence planning for the subsequent PPR-AS cycle
Staff member
7) Present an activity statement to the supervisor for the next 12 month cycle
        for discussion and agreement
8) If acceptable to both parties, activity statement to be signed off by both parties
9) Where the activity statement requires further work, the staff member will arrange a second
          meeting with the supervisor for further discussion and agreement.
Top 
9.2.7 Subsequent Action 
PPR-AS will inform decisions and/or recommendations relating to the following. Where PPR-AS discussions
  result in decisions concerning the following or any similar matters, or where the Head of School gives
  a reference or assessment, the supervisor will provide the staff member with full details of their
  recommendations in writing as soon as practicable.
(a) Incremental Progression
A staff member will progress to the next increment within the relevant classification level where
  performance is satisfactory as determined through PPR-AS. 
The provisions relating to incremental progression for academic staff are contained in the 
QUT
      Enterprise  Agreement (Academic Staff)
(clause 19).
(b) Probation
A probation period shall be up to three years for all staff members (Levels A to E) appointed to an
  on-going position.
The following periods of probation will apply to staff employed on their first fixed-term appointment
having regard to the period of fixed term employment and the nature of the work.
Period of fixed-term appointment
Period of Probation
More than 6 months and up to 1 year
1 - 3 months
More than 1 year and up to 3 years
6 - 9 months
More than 3 years
12 months
The arrangements for probation are provided in clause 33 of the 
QUT
Enterprise  Agreement (Academic Staff).
(c) Accelerated Incremental Progression
Following the formal PPR-AS review and where the supervisor determines that a staff member's performance
  against the agreed performance objectives outlined in the PPR-AS plan is exceptional, the supervisor
  may consider making a recommendation to the authorising officer for accelerated incremental progression
  through more than one salary increment consistent with the University's policy on accelerated incremental
  progression (see 
B/7.8).
The Human Resources Director will monitor instances of accelerated progression.
(d) Recognition and Reward Programs
Following the formal PPR-AS review and where the supervisor determines that a staff member has met
  or exceeded the agreed performance objectives outlined in the PPR-AS plan, the supervisor may consider
  recognising a staff member's performance through a range of recognition and reward programs (see B/5).
(e) Fixed term appointment
For all staff on fixed term appointments, the outcomes of PPR-AS may be one factor which informs decisions
  regarding the renewal of fixed-term appointments. Fixed term appointments must be made and renewed
  in accordance with clause 27 of the 
QUT
  Enterprise  Agreement (Academic Staff).
(f) Promotion
Where staff members indicate they will be seeking promotion on personal merit, the supervisor will
  provide the staff member with a written report as a result of the PPR-AS process, indicating the level
  of support for the application. The report of the supervisor will be discussed with the Head of School
  where the Head of School is not the supervisor.
(g) Professional Development Program (PDP)
It is professionally expected that applications for PDP will be discussed as part of PPR-AS prior
  to submission.
The staff member will submit a PDP application to their supervisor detailing the areas of development
  required, developmental activities previously undertaken and any other relevant information.
The supervisor will consider this application and provide the staff member with a written report indicating
  the level of support for the application and the School resources, if any, to be provided. The report
  of the supervisor will be discussed with the Head of School where the Head of School is not the supervisor.
(h) Unsatisfactory performance
Either during the PPR-AS process or in the normal course of performance of duties, the supervisor
  may identify the performance of a staff member as not satisfactory. Where this occurs as part of PPR-AS
  the supervisor will record performance as being unsatisfactory and commence procedures for Managing
  Unsatisfactory Performance in accordance with the procedures outlined in the 
QUT
  Enterprise  Agreement (Academic Staff)
, clause 44. The PPR-AS activity
  statement can be used in any process for managing unsatisfactory performance.
Top 
9.2.8 Documentation 
(a) The PPR-AS 
Activity Statement
form remains confidential to the supervisor and the staff member
  during the term of the appointment unless all parties agree otherwise. The Head of School will also
  have access to the documentation unless the Executive Dean of Faculty has replaced the Head of School
as supervisor at the staff member's request.
(b) At the completion of a PPR-AS cycle the Activity Statement form will be filed on the staff member's
  personal file in the Human Resources Department. To assist the planning discussions, the supervisor
  and staff member should maintain a copy of the official documentation for the current cycle and for
  the previous cycle.
(c) A copy of relevant PPR-AS documentation will however be provided to the authorising officer in
  support of any recommendation associated with incremental progression, renewal of fixed-term appointment
  and the final probation review as evidence of a staff member's performance during the term of appointment.
(d) A staff member may use documentation developed for the formal performance review to support other
  applications (eg promotion, PDP).
Top 
9.2.9 Training 
The University will provide supervisors with training relevant to the PPR-AS. All supervisors must
attend training in PPR-AS prior to participating in the process.
All non-supervisory staff will have access to information sessions prior to participating in PPR- AS.
Top 
9.2.10 Resolution of disputes 
Any matters of disagreement between the staff member and supervisor should be referred to the head
  of school (if not the supervisor) or the executive dean of faculty (if the head of school is the supervisor).
  If disagreements are unable to be resolved the staff member may refer them to the University grievance
resolution procedures as contained in  
B/10.1.
Top 
9.2.11 Social justice 
All aspects of the PPR-AS will be consistent with the University's social justice policies (see A/8).
Top 
Related Documents 
QUT Enterprise
 Agreement (Academic Staff)
Clause 19 - Incremental Progression
Clause 25 - Leave Entitlements
Clause 27 - Categories of Appointment
Clause 32 - Performance Planning and Review for Academic Staff
Clause 33 - Probation
Clause 35 - Workloads and Allocation of Work
Clause 44 - Process for managing Unsatisfactory Performance
PPR-AS Activity Statement
MOPP B/7.8 Incremental progression
MOPP B/9.3 Performance Planning and Review - Senior Staff 
MOPP B/9.1 Performance Planning and Review for professional staff - applies to professional staff appointed
  to research only positions
MOPP B/9.7 Evaluating teaching quality
MOPP C/4.7 Evaluation of courses, units, teaching and student experience
Top 
Modification History 
Date
Sections
Source
Details
   21.12.10
   All
   Human Resources Department
  Periodic review - Minor editorial changes only
27.04.06
All
Vice-Chancellor
Revised policy consistent with current probation provisions and University policy
        on evaluating teaching quality
17.11.05
All
Vice-Chancellor
Revised policy to comply with Higher Education Workplace Relations Requirements
        (HEWRR)
01.06.01
All
Vice-Chancellor
Updated following certification of QUT Enterprise Bargaining Agreement (Academic
        Staff) 2000-2003
01.12.98
All
Vice-Chancellor
Approved - to take effect for professors and associate professors from 01.01.99;
        for all other academic staff from 01.07.99
Top 
    Chapter A | Chapter B | Chapter C | Chapter D | Chapter E | Chapter F | Chapter G | Chapter H | Chapter I | Appendices | Protocol for MOPP Policy | Recent Updates
    QUT Home | MOPP Home
    CRICOS No. 00213J
    Privacy | Copyright | Accessibility
    Last modified 16-Feb-2011
    Contact us | Feedback | Disclaimer
