QUT | MOPP | B/10.1 Grievance resolution procedures for workplace related grievances and bullying
            QUT&nbsp;Home
          Contact&nbsp;us
          Search
      MOPP Home
      Protocol for MOPP Policy
      Recent Updates
      B/10.1 Grievance resolution procedures for workplace related grievances and bullying
Chapters
A - Governance/Organisation
B - Human Resources
C - Learning/Teaching
D - Research/Development
E - Student Administration
F - Information Management
G - Financial Management
H - Physical Facilities
I - International/Community
MOPP Appendices
MOPP Protocol
MOPP Updates
[Print-friendly version]
Contact OfficerManager, Policy Planning and Workplace Relations, HR 
Approval Date17/11/2005 
Approval AuthorityVice-Chancellor 
Date of Next Review01/07/2009 
10.1.1 Application 
10.1.2 Directives 
10.1.3 Procedures 
10.1.4 First Level - Early Conciliation 
10.1.5 Second Level - Further Conciliation 
10.1.6 Third Level - Investigation 
Related Documents 
Modification History 
These procedures deal with workplace related grievances in accordance with QUT's Grievance Resolution
  Policy (
A/6.1
). The
  procedures provide a mechanism for handling workplace related grievances in an unbiased and fair manner
  through a process of conciliation or investigation where appropriate. They are underpinned by the principles
  of natural justice and procedural fairness and emphasise the resolution of the grievance as early as
possible and as close as possible to the source.
There are separate procedures for the resolution of discrimination related grievances (
A/8.5
  and student related grievances (
E/9.2
Top 
10.1.1 Application 
(a) The procedures described in this document apply to staff and are designed for the resolution of
  grievances; complaints, disputes or problems related to internal workplace matters affecting staff.
  Grievances may include complaints relating to workplace bullying as defined in the Grievance Resolution
  Policy.
(b) These procedures do not apply if the subject of the grievance relates to the following:
University actions required by legislation (including industrial legislation and regulations),
      awards or agreements which require the University to deal with a matter in a particular way
decisions of University Council
the content of approved policies of the University
policies or clauses in enterprise bargaining agreements in which an alternative review / grievance
      resolution procedure is outlined eg personal promotion, probation and redundancy.
disciplinary matters, ie unsatisfactory performance, misconduct and serious misconduct.
Top 
10.1.2 Directives 
The following directives apply to workplace related grievance resolution procedures:
(a) The complainant who initiates the grievance resolution process may withdraw from the process with
  advice in writing to the Human Resources Director or nominee. This will not prevent the University
  from continuing to pursue matters relevant to the grievance where the University considers it appropriate
  having regard to all circumstances.
(b) The parties involved in the grievance must participate in good faith at each level of the grievance
  resolution procedures. The University may take action in accordance with procedures for misconduct
  or serious misconduct if any party refuses to participate in the procedures.
(c) Where two or more complainants believe they have an identical or common problem, they may take
  action together and the matter may be dealt with as a single process.
(d) A representative may assist or speak on behalf of each of the parties at any level of these procedures.
  A representative means:
in relation to a staff member, a person chosen by the staff member to assist or speak on their
      behalf. At the choice of the staff member, this person may be an officer of the staff member's
    union.
in relation to the University, a person who assists or speaks on behalf of the University.
A representative will not be a person who is currently practising as a solicitor or barrister.
(e) A complainant's representative may enter into direct discussions with the University to resolve
  or address matters relevant to a grievance.
(f) Time limits are set at each level to ensure speedy resolution of issues. Processes must be completed
  within these time limits unless the parties agree otherwise.
(g) Confidentiality will be respected and maintained at all times within the constraints of the need
  to fully investigate the matter and within the principles of natural justice.
(h) Settlements reached through these procedures shall not constitute precedent
(i) Where a grievance arises under these procedures the University shall where possible suspend activities
  relating to the grievance during the operation of these procedures. The status quo of the complainant
  shall where possible remain unchanged in all other respects.
(j) Where a staff member (or the staff member's Representative) and the Human Resources Director (or
  nominee) agree, the grievance resolution process may begin at the 
Third Level 
of these
  procedures.
Top 
10.1.3 Procedures 
The internal University procedures for workplace grievances follow the three level framework depicted
  in the diagram 
Workplace Related
  Grievances and Bullying - Grievance Resolution Process
. The detailed procedures are described
  below. All timelines at each level are to be followed unless otherwise agreed between the complainant
  and the relevant University officer.
Before initiating these grievance resolution procedures, a complainant may wish to seek further information
  and advice from relevant officers in the Human Resources Department about whether these procedures
  best suit their grievance situation.
Top 
10.1.4 First Level - Early Conciliation 
The University's approach to grievance resolution focuses on seeking to resolve grievances at the
  earliest possible stage. The First Level of these procedures is therefore the most important if early
resolution is to be achieved.
The complainant or supervisor may seek assistance from relevant officers within the Human Resources
  Department in order to seek to resolve the matter at this level. These officers may assist with the
  process of conciliation.
The steps involved in reporting a grievance under the First Level of these procedures are outlined
  below:
(a) The complainant or representative will advise the immediate supervisor, verbally or in writing,
  that a grievance exists and the nature of and parties to the grievance. However, where a complainant
  claims that the immediate supervisor is a party to the grievance, the complainant shall instead report
  the conflict situation to an appropriate supervisor or person responsible for the area in which the
  alleged grievance arose.
(b) The supervisor shall make written response to the complainant normally no later than ten working
  days from the date the matter is raised.
The focus at the First Level is on informal discussion and conciliation. In seeking to resolve the
  grievance, the supervisor may:
discuss the situation with the complainant and other parties to the grievance (either together
    or separately); and
discuss with the parties options for resolution.
Top 
10.1.5 Second Level - Further Conciliation 
If the complainant believes that the grievance has not been resolved, the grievance may proceed to
  the Second Level in accordance with the following procedures:
(a) The complainant or representative will advise the Human Resources Director (or nominee), in writing,
  that the grievance has not been resolved.
(b) This advice should outline full and concise details of the grievance, including the parties to
  the grievance, and steps taken to resolve the grievance.
(c) The Human Resources Director (or nominee) shall give advice to the head of organisational unit
  about an appropriate course of action to deal with the grievance. The course of action will normally
  include a meeting arranged by the Human Resources Director (or nominee) and held within ten working
  days (unless otherwise agreed) between the head of the relevant organisational unit, the complainant
  and other parties to the grievance.
Should the grievance involve more than one organisational unit, the Human Resources Director (or nominee)
  upon being so advised will give advice to all heads of relevant organisational units involved about
  an appropriate course of action to deal with the grievance. The course of action will normally include
  a meeting arranged by the Human Resources Director. Such a meeting will include the heads of the relevant
  organisational units, the complainant and other parties to the grievance. The complainant shall be
  advised, in advance, of the meeting and of the parties attending the meeting.
(d) The head(s) of organisational unit(s), on the advice of the Human Resources Director may appoint
  an independent person who is external to the University to assist in the conciliation process.
(e) The head of organisational unit shall make written response to the complainant not later than
  twenty working days from the date the matter is raised with the Human Resources Director.
Like the First Level, the Second Level focuses on informal discussion and conciliation. In seeking
  to resolve the grievance, the head of organisational unit may:
discuss with the complainant and other parties the reasons why the grievance could not be resolved
    at the first level;
discuss the conflict situation with the parties to the grievance (usually together);
discuss the facts related to the grievance;
discuss with the parties options for resolution.
The complainant or supervisor may seek assistance from relevant officers within the Human Resources
  Department in order to seek to resolve the matter at this level. These officers may assist with the
  process of conciliation.
Top 
10.1.6 Third Level - Investigation 
If the complainant believes that the grievance has not been resolved the grievance may proceed to
  the Third Level in accordance with one of the following procedures:
Panel Hearing
Workplace Bullying
Where the grievance concerns allegations of workplace bullying (as defined by the University's 
Grievance
      Resolution Policy
) the procedures outlined below in (b) Workplace Bullying shall
      apply.
(a) Panel Hearing
The complainant or representative shall advise the Human Resources Director (or nominee) in
    writing of the continuing unresolved grievance.
The Human Resources Director (or nominee) shall establish a grievance resolution panel comprising: 
two senior University officers; and
two staff members nominated by the staff representatives of the relevant staff
        consultative committee after consultation with the complainant.
The panel members must be identified within five working days of the notice of the unresolved
      grievance.
The panel will meet within ten working days of the panel members being identified.
The panel will make all reasonable attempts to address the matter and will conduct its meetings
      over a period of not more than 20 working days from the date of the first meeting.
The panel will provide the Human Resources Director (or nominee) with its report including
      findings and recommendation(s), where appropriate, which may include any remedial action to resolve
      the grievance, within ten working days of its final meeting. The report will be signed by the panel
    members. Where the panel members cannot agree they must state the reasons for disagreement. 
The panel will: 
define the nature and scope of the grievance;
provide the complainant with the opportunity to submit any relevant documentation and/or be
        interviewed. The complainant may be assisted by a representative to prepare any documentation
        or be accompanied by a representative to an interview;
provide the opportunity to all relevant parties directly affected by the grievance to submit
        documentation and/or be interviewed;
have the right to interview or request written statements from persons relevant to the grievance.
                      Such persons may seek the assistance of a representative to prepare any statements
        or be accompanied by a representative to an interview;
have access to all relevant information and records
consider the grievance within the context of relevant University policy, where applicable.
The panel will be assisted by a Secretary appointed by the Human Resources Director.
The Human Resources Director (or nominee) will consider the report and provide advice to
          the Vice-Chancellor on any remedial action which should be taken to resolve the grievance and
      whether or not disciplinary action should be commenced against the person or persons subject to the
    complaint.
Following a decision by the Vice-Chancellor written advice shall be provided to the relevant
      parties.
Where the grievance remains unresolved, the matter may be referred by the complainant or the
          University to the Australian Industrial Relations Commission under section 111 AA of the Workplace
          Relations Act 1996 
Recommendations by Consent 
for settlement. In this case the parties
    agree to be bound by any recommendation to resolve the grievance made by the Commission.
(b) Workplace Bullying
The complainant or representative shall advise the Human Resources Director (or nominee) in
    writing of the complaint with sufficient detail to establish that the complaint is properly founded.
Where it is established that the complaint is properly founded the Human Resources Director
    (or nominee) will initiate an investigation. The Director may appoint a suitable person who may be
    external to the University to conduct the investigation.
The person conducting the investigation shall act expeditiously and shall have access to
    all persons and relevant information they consider relevant to fully investigate the matter consistent
      with the principles of natural justice.
The outcome of the investigation shall be reported by the Human Resources Director (or nominee)
      to the Vice-Chancellor and advice provided on any remedial action to resolve the grievance and
    whether or not disciplinary action should be commenced against the person or persons subject to the
    complaint.
Following a decision by the Vice-Chancellor written advice shall be provided to the complainant
      and the person(s) against whom the complaint is made.
Top 
Related Documents 
MOPP B/8.1 QUT Code of Conduct
MOPP A/6.1 Grievance resolution policy
MOPP B/8.5 Disciplinary Action for Misconduct and Serious Misconduct - Senior Staff
QUT Enterprise Bargaining Agreement (Professional Staff)
QUT Enterprise Bargaining Agreement (Academic Staff)
Top 
Modification History 
Date
Sections
Source
Details
  27.07.07
   All
   Human Resources Director 
  Policy renumbered to B/10.1 (formerly B/13.1) 
17.11.05
All
Vice-Chancellor
Revised policy to comply with Higher Education Workplace Relations Requirements (HEWRR)
14.06.02
All
Vice-Chancellor
Approved new procedures
Top 
    Chapter A | Chapter B | Chapter C | Chapter D | Chapter E | Chapter F | Chapter G | Chapter H | Chapter I | Appendices | Protocol for MOPP Policy | Recent Updates
    QUT Home | MOPP Home
    CRICOS No. 00213J
    Privacy | Copyright | Accessibility
    Last modified 12-May-2010
    Contact us | Feedback | Disclaimer
