QUT | MOPP | B/11.1 Human resources workplace change management policy
            QUT&nbsp;Home
          Contact&nbsp;us
          Search
      MOPP Home
      Protocol for MOPP Policy
      Recent Updates
      B/11.1 Human resources workplace change management policy
Chapters
A - Governance/Organisation
B - Human Resources
C - Learning/Teaching
D - Research/Development
E - Student Administration
F - Information Management
G - Financial Management
H - Physical Facilities
I - International/Community
MOPP Appendices
MOPP Protocol
MOPP Updates
[Print-friendly version]
Contact OfficerCoordinator, HR Advisory Services 
Approval Date26/10/2005 
Approval AuthorityCouncil 
Date of Next Review01/07/2009 
11.1.1 Objectives 
11.1.2 Application 
11.1.3 Principles 
11.1.4 Procedures and practices 
11.1.5 The scale of workplace change 
11.1.6 Project sponsor 
11.1.7 Consultation with Human Resources Department 
11.1.8 Change Management Plan 
11.1.9 Other considerations 
11.1.10 Implementation of Change Management Plan 
11.1.11 Sources of workplace change proposals 
11.1.12 Elements of Change Management Plan 
Related Documents 
Modification History 
QUT is committed to meeting the challenges of the future. The University values 
  its staff highly and is committed to open discussions about how best to meet 
  the changing needs of the environment.
Effective management of workplace change is seen as a process by which change 
  is introduced which achieves an improvement in service and/or efficiency, in 
  a way that preserves or enhances a positive workplace.
Top 
11.1.1 Objectives 
The need for change in the University may result from external and/or internal influences such as
  government policy, funding arrangements and/or student demand. Workplace change should ideally be planned
  and supported by the University planning processes. However, often change can be relatively unexpected
  and may need to occur within more urgent timeframes. This policy recognises the fact that poorly implemented
  change has a strong negative effect on efficiency and staff morale, and can result in substantial avoidable
costs.
This policy outlines key principles, procedures and practices that the University seeks to apply to
  ensure the effective management of workplace change consistent with sound management practice, relevant
  commitments outlined in University enterprise bargaining agreements, and related policies and procedures.
Top 
11.1.2 Application 
This policy addresses how approved change proposals are progressed at QUT (Figure
    1). The change
  management principles outlined in this policy apply to all workplace change projects. However, the
  scale and nature of the change project inform how these principles are applied and the application
of relevant procedures.
Top 
11.1.3 Principles 
Key elements and principles guiding the development and implementation of a workplace change project
are as follows.
a) Project sponsor
A project sponsor will lead each workplace change project within the University. The selection of
  the project sponsor will reflect the scale of the change project. The project sponsor will either be
  a member of the Senior Staff Group, or a senior member of staff of the relevant School or Department.
For further details, see 
B/11.1.6
b) Consultation with Human Resources Department
Any change requiring a formal Change Management Plan requires consultation with the Human Resources
  Director or nominee. This consultation will include the planning and implementation stages of the change
  project. Project Sponsors undertaking change projects that do not require a formal Change Management
  Plan will also benefit from consultation with the Human Resources Director's nominee.
For further details, see 
B/11.1.7
c) Change Management Plan
A Change Management Plan is developed to guide the successful completion of the change project. The
  Change Management Plan is developed following approval of a proposal for change through one of the
  processes outlined in 
B/11.1.11.
The level of detail in the Change Management Plan and the extent and timing of consultation will vary
  according to the scale and nature of the change project. Significant Workplace Change Projects will
  require comprehensive Change Management Plans. Change Management Plans that predominantly impact on
  the divisions are submitted for approval to the Vice-Chancellor, whereas those that predominantly impact
  on the faculties are submitted to the Vice-Chancellor through the Deputy Vice-Chancellor (Academic)
  for approval.
Other Change Management Plans that impact at the school or department level only are submitted to
  the relevant executive dean of faculty / head of division, or head of school / department for approval.
  The level of detail and formality of these Change Management Plans is also dependant on the scale and
  nature of the change project.
For further details, see 
B/11.1.8
d) Staff and staff representative consultation
Consultation will occur with all staff affected by a change project and, where requested by an affected
  staff member(s), with their representative(s). A representative is a person chosen by the affected
  staff member(s) to assist and speak on their behalf. Where the staff member chooses, the representative
  may be an officer of the staff member's union. A representative will not be a person who is currently
  practising as a solicitor or barrister.
It is important to remember that workplace change in one organisational area may impact upon staff
  in other areas. The Change Management Plan outlines the consultation process that will take place.
  This Plan details the formal and informal mechanisms that will be utilised to keep staff informed and
  involved during the change process.
The timing and level of consultation will depend upon the nature and scope of the change proposal.
  Consultation may occur at a number of steps in the change management process, from the development
  of a change proposal through to the review of the change project.
In situations where change may have significant consequences (B/11.1.5
) the University is committed
  through the enterprise bargaining agreements to timely consultation on a number of matters with affected
  staff and, where requested by an affected staff member(s), with their representative(s) as defined
  above.
e) Staff support
The University will provide support such as personal counselling and career planning to staff affected
  by the change project. The University is committed wherever possible to retaining staff and offering
  future opportunities to affected staff. These opportunities may include:
retraining;
flexible working arrangements such as part time employment;
job swap arrangements; and
opportunity to apply for a new position.
In the event that the University cannot avoid redundancies, redeployment and voluntary redundancy
  may be considered, with involuntary redundancy being undertaken as a last resort.
f) Health and safety
Planning and implementation of the change project will consider the health and safety of staff consistent
  with the University's health and safety policy (A/9.1
g) Equal opportunity
The change project will be developed and implemented in a manner consistent with the University's
  equal opportunity and diversity policy (A/8.4
Top 
11.1.4 Procedures and practices 
The approval processes for workplace change projects are illustrated in  
Figure
1.
Top 
11.1.5 The scale of workplace change 
This policy identifies two broad categories of change to which the policy principles apply. The scope
  and nature of the change project inform the amount of detail required in the Change Management Plan
  (B/11.1.10
), the selection of the project sponsor (B/11.1.6
), and determine the final approval
  process. Change projects are defined as either Significant Workplace Change Projects or Other Workplace
  Change Projects. The Human Resources Director or nominee can assist in determining the scale of the
change project.
a) Significant Workplace Change Projects
Some workplace change projects may result in change with significant consequences. Significant consequences
  include but are not limited to:
substantial changes in the composition, operation or size of the University workforce;
substantial changes in the skills required by staff;
restructuring of organisational units;
variation to the delivery of University services which impacts on its staffing structure; and/or
any changes likely to lead to job loss.
Consistent with University enterprise agreements, the University is required to consult with affected
  staff and, where requested by an affected staff member(s), with their representative(s) as defined
  in 
B/11.1.3
(d), where the University decides that such significant change is required.
Change Management Plans for these projects will be comprehensive outlining all relevant details and
  will be submitted to the Vice-Chancellor for approval.
b) Other Workplace Change Projects
Other Workplace Change Projects do not result in change with significant consequences, as described
  above, and therefore are not covered by the consultative requirements of the University's enterprise
  agreements. Yet such change is important to the work area and still requires consultation. The level
  of consultation for these projects varies according to the scale and nature of the change project.
These change projects may require Change Management Plans outlining all relevant details, or may be
  informal plans. Informal Change Management Plans may use as a checklist the elements of the Change
  Management Plan to ensure they have been considered and appropriate action taken.
These change projects require submissions for approval to be made to the relevant executive dean of
  faculty / head of division, or to the head of school / department. The project sponsor will generally
  be a member of the Senior Staff Group of the relevant faculty or division, or a senior staff member
  of the relevant school or department.
Top 
11.1.6 Project sponsor 
The selection of the project sponsor reflects the scale and nature of the change project, and the
  approval process of the change project. For Significant Workplace Change Projects the project sponsor
  will be a member of the Senior Staff Group. For Other Workplace Change Projects the sponsor will generally
  be a senior staff member of the relevant School or Department.
The project sponsor is responsible for the following:
ensuring that the objectives of the project have the approval of appropriate senior management;
managing the project effectively;
ensuring the project has access to the appropriate resources;
achieving project objectives;
working to gain the commitment of senior staff affected by the change project;
consulting with staff affected by change;
determining the appropriate formality and level of detail of the Change Management Plan, and ensuring
    it is developed, submitted for approval and implemented as required; and
approving the evaluation criteria and methodology, and ensuring the evaluation is conducted in
    an appropriate time frame, and a report submitted to the Human Resources Director.
Top 
11.1.7 Consultation with Human Resources Department 
The Human Resources Director or nominee will provide assistance in preparing the Change Management
  Plan regardless of the level of detail or degree of formality of the plan. Advice should be sought
  on managing change, consultation with staff and, where requested by staff, with a staff representative(s),
  recruitment and selection, redeployment, and voluntary and involuntary redundancy arrangements to ensure
consistency with current industrial provisions.
Top 
11.1.8 Change Management Plan 
The level of detail and formality of the Change Management Plan will vary according to the scale and
nature of the change project. The Change Management Plan will include elements as outlined in 
B/11.1.12
Where the change project involves significant job redesign, the Change Management Plan will include
  a review of position classification levels. The manner in which a new position will be advertised will
  be detailed in the Change Management Plan. If job loss is expected to result from the project, an implementation
  plan in accordance with relevant enterprise agreements is required. See 
B/11.1.10
and 
B/11.1.12
for
  further details.
Top 
11.1.9 Other considerations 
Workplace change may result in changes in areas other than staffing. The impact of the workplace changes
  on funding arrangements, technological systems and processes, facilities and accommodation may need
  to be considered as part of the management of the change project (guidance on relevant consultation
  and approval processes are found at MOPP 
A/3
and Chapter 
H
Top 
11.1.10 Implementation of Change Management Plan 
In implementing the Change Management Plan a number of factors will need to be addressed including:
a) Workload considerations
The impact of change on the workload of staff will need to be addressed in accordance with the relevant
  provisions of the enterprise agreements.
b) Training and development needs
The training and development needs of staff affected by the change project will need to be considered
  during implementation. Assistance in the identification and provision of training and development activities
  is available from internal providers including Human Resources Department, Equity Services, Information
  Technology Services, Learning and Teaching Unit and eLearning Services.
c) Staff support
The University may make support services available to staff to assist in the implementation of workplace
  change, such as personal counselling and career planning. The Human Resources Director or nominee can
  provide assistance in identifying appropriate support providers.
d) Updating administrative systems
A number of areas responsible for University administrative systems may need to be informed following
  the successful implementation of workplace change. The Department of Reporting and Analysis and the Human Resources Department should be advised of changes resulting in the creation or
  disestablishment of an organisational area, the creation of new cost centre codes, transfer of existing
budgets and/or the establishment of new budgets.
The Corporate Finance Department should be also be advised of the establishment of project accounts
  and/or the transferring of account balances and other finance systems issues.
Human Resources Department and Information Technology Services should be advised of any changes to
  the human resources information systems.
Governance Services should be notified of any changes to financial and human resources delegations.
Top 
11.1.11 Sources of workplace change proposals 
Workplace change may be driven by factors internal and external to the University. Change that is
  likely to impact on staff will normally be initiated through the operation of one of the following
  mechanisms.
a) Corporate proposals
The sources of corporate proposals are as follows:
QUT Council:
Council is ultimately responsible for decisions relating to the establishment,
  monitoring and closing of centres, institutes, schools and faculties (A/3.1
and 
A/4.1
Planning and Resources Committee of Council
: Planning and Resources Committee is responsible
  to Council and may initiate reviews in relation to resource utilisation and other strategic resource
  management issues (A/3.5
University Academic Board
: University Academic Board is responsible to Council for the academic
  policies and practices of the University. University Academic Board may become aware of the implications
  for significant workplace change due to its involvement in the academic program, and where academic
  policies and practices impact on the establishment, monitoring and closure of faculties, schools, institutes
  and centres (A/3.6
Faculty/division reviews
: Faculties / divisions are usually reviewed externally every 7
  years. The purpose of these reviews is to promote continuous improvement and assure the quality of
  University programs and services. Planning and Resources Committee discharges Council's responsibility
  for the overall implementation of these reviews (A/2.3
b) Faculty and divisional proposals
In addition to the external reviews, faculties / divisions can initiate internal reviews of their
  work areas in response to changing needs, new technologies or other environmental changes to improve
  efficiencies and/or service levels. These reviews can be conducted internally by the faculty / division,
  or undertaken by parties external to their faculty / division or the University.
Notwithstanding the use of internal or external reviews, individual units or a number of units jointly
  may make proposals to amend the organisational structure of academic areas. These proposals are made
  to University Academic Board for recommending to Council.
  Similarly individual units or a number of units jointly may make proposals to amend the structure of
non-academic areas. These proposals are made to the Vice-Chancellor.
c) School and department proposals
Heads of school / department / independent section are responsible for ensuring the school / department
  / independent section is adequately servicing the needs of the faculty or division, and is responsible
  for advising the executive dean of faculty / head of division as appropriate on all matters associated
  with the operation of the school / department / independent section.
  Change proposals initiated by heads of school / department / independent section need to be approved
  by the respective executive dean of faculty / head of division before being forwarded to the Vice-Chancellor
  or Council for approval. This would include approval of the change proposal, and any subsequent Change
  Management Plans.
d) Authorities to determine and allocate staff resources
The allocation and coordination of resources to the faculties is undertaken by the Deputy Vice-Chancellor
  (Academic) (A/4.1
The determination and allocation of resources within faculties and between schools in a faculty is
  undertaken by the executive dean of faculty in consultation with the heads of school (A/4.1
The creation and dissolution of sections, departments and divisions is the responsibility of the Vice-Chancellor
  (A/4.1.8
Details of authorities to create positions and appoint staff are provided in the Schedule of Authorities
  and Delegations (Appendix
  3
e) Role of workforce planning
Workforce planning is designed to assist managers to plan workforce needs to achieve strategic planning
  objectives. As such the workforce plan is an important vehicle for initiating incremental change in
  staffing structures.
The identification of the need for new ongoing positions generally occurs
  as part of the strategic planning process. Faculties and divisions prepare
  annual workforce planning submissions to the Division of Finance and Resource
  Planning. These submissions outline workforce needs as anticipated by the faculty
  / divisional strategic plan. Following submission, the Vice-Chancellor approves
  for each faculty and division a staffing structure comprising both academic
  and professional staff ongoing positions, on the advice of the Human Resources
  Director (A/2.2
and 
B/3.1
Top 
11.1.12 Elements of Change Management Plan 
The Change Management Plan will include the following elements:
(a
Project title/date
(b) Approach rationale
clarify the reason for change
outline the impact of proposed changes on costs, quality of service and/or managerial efficiencies
demonstrate how the approach will promote commitment amongst those directly affected by the change
detail how the project will be evaluated in terms of achievement of objectives and approach
(c) Objectives
clear, concrete and measurable
relates to work area strategic direction and is consistent with Performance Planning and Review
    objectives of senior staff
(d) Current staffing structure
current approved staffing structure and reporting relationships for senior positions
history of significant staffing restructures over the past 5 years
(e) Proposed staffing structure and funding
highlight the differences between current and proposed structures
assess any impact on the work or conditions of staff
outline the cost implications of changing the staffing structure
(f) Impact on workloads
identify impact on the workload of staff
(g) Key steps, responsibilities and timeframes
Define the:
change process including the key steps, those responsible for undertaking them and appropriate
    time frames
target completion and evaluation dates
(h) Communication/consultation strategy
Detail the:
consultation approach with staff and representatives as defined in B/11.1.3(d) where requested
    by staff
arrangements for any staff and industrial consultation
means by which staff will be informed of the objectives of the project
formal and informal networks that will be utilised to keep staff informed of the progress of the
    project
(i) Proposed transition arrangements
Detail the:
proposed timing of implementation ie stages or all at once
recruitment and/or selection approach for any new positions
need to review any current job classification levels
need for redeployment of staff and any redundancy implications
training and staff development implications
(j) Evaluation methodology
the criteria which will be used to assess the success of the project
who will conduct the evaluation and when it will be conducted.
Top 
Related Documents 
QUT Enterprise Bargaining Agreement (Academic Staff)
QUT Enterprise Bargaining Agreement (Professional Staff)
QUT Employee Collective Agreement (Senior Staff) 2009-2012
Top 
Modification History 
Date
Sections
Source
Details
  11.02.11
  All
  Governance Services
  Revised terms of reference due to name change from Office of Teaching Quality to Learning and Teaching Unit
26.10.05
All
Council
Revised policy to comply with Higher Education Workplace Relations Requirements (HEWRR)
13.12.00
All
Council
New policy
Top 
    Chapter A | Chapter B | Chapter C | Chapter D | Chapter E | Chapter F | Chapter G | Chapter H | Chapter I | Appendices | Protocol for MOPP Policy | Recent Updates
    QUT Home | MOPP Home
    CRICOS No. 00213J
    Privacy | Copyright | Accessibility
    Last modified 09-Feb-2011
    Contact us | Feedback | Disclaimer
