QUT | MOPP | B/11.3 Redeployment
            QUT&nbsp;Home
          Contact&nbsp;us
          Search
      MOPP Home
      Protocol for MOPP Policy
      Recent Updates
      B/11.3 Redeployment
Chapters
A - Governance/Organisation
B - Human Resources
C - Learning/Teaching
D - Research/Development
E - Student Administration
F - Information Management
G - Financial Management
H - Physical Facilities
I - International/Community
MOPP Appendices
MOPP Protocol
MOPP Updates
[Print-friendly version]
Contact OfficerManager, Policy Planning and Workplace Relations, HR 
Approval Date17/11/2005 
Approval AuthorityVice-Chancellor 
Date of Next Review01/07/2009 
11.3.1 Introduction 
11.3.2 Application 
11.3.3 Principles 
11.3.4 Roles and responsibilities 
11.3.5 Redeployment procedures and process 
11.3.6 Entitlements 
Related Documents 
Modification History 
11.3.1 Introduction 
The University is committed to ensuring that staff have job security. The University highly values
  its staff and is committed, wherever possible, to retaining the services of, and offering on-going
  opportunities, to existing staff members. The University will seek to avoid job losses through measures
  including redeployment, voluntary flexible working arrangements such as reduced hours, and consideration
of job swap arrangements between identified and other positions.
This document outlines the process for redeployment of staff members whose positions have been identified
  and declared as surplus to the University's overall requirements, that is, redundant.
Top 
11.3.2 Application 
For the purposes of this policy a 
staff member 
shall mean a staff member:
appointed on an on-going basis (full-time or part-time) and
whose position has been identified and declared as redundant and
who has elected to seek redeployment.
Top 
11.3.3 Principles 
The following principles will apply to the redeployment process:
A staff member whose position is declared redundant will be given the opportunity to consider other
    options available, including redeployment, before any attempt is made by the University to terminate
    the staff member's employment. The University will make all reasonable efforts to redeploy staff
    whose positions are redundant to other suitable available positions and will provide appropriate
    reasonable training or retraining to affected staff to assist redeployment following the identification
    of a suitable position.
A suitable position will normally mean a position at the same classification level of the staff
    member and for which the staff member has the skills and qualifications to undertake, or for which
    the staff member would have the skills to undertake with a reasonable period of training / retraining.
    This does not preclude an offer of redeployment to a lower classification level, in which case, the
    staff member's salary would be maintained at their substantive salary level for 12 months, after
    which their salary will revert to the salary level of the new position.
Where positions are declared redundant, vacant positions of six months or longer will not be advertised
    until the suitability of affected staff members have been assessed (see B/11.3.5 paragraph b).
Staff members are expected to participate fully in the redeployment process by maintaining a proactive
    search for positions including short term appointments, by making themselves available to be considered
    for redeployment to a vacancy, by attending interviews and by participating in appropriate training
    (see B/11.3.4 paragraph a).
The redeployment search period will normally be three months for professional staff and normally
    six months for academic staff. During this time the University and the staff member will seek to
  identify a suitable position for the staff member.
To ensure that redeployment has the greatest opportunity to succeed, the Vice-Chancellor or nominee
    will have the right to appoint a staff member seeking redeployment to an appropriate vacancy (see
    B/11.3.5 paragraph f).
Staff members will normally be redeployed to vacant on-going positions. However, an appointment
    may be made to a suitable fixed term position of not less than 6 months. Where more than one staff
    member seeking redeployment may be suitable for a vacant position, selection to the position will
    be made on merit based on selection criteria for the position.
Staff members appointed to a fixed-term position during the redeployment search period will remain
    on the redeployment program for the remainder of the redeployment search period. During this time
    the University will continue to seek a suitable on-going position for redeployment. However, if at
    the expiry of the search period the staff member has not been appointed to a suitable on-going position
    for redeployment, the staff member's employment will be terminated with appropriate entitlements
    under the redundancy provisions for involuntary redundancy of the relevant enterprise bargaining
    agreement.
A staff member will receive a formal offer of appointment to a position, which they may accept
    or reject. A staff member shall not unreasonably refuse to accept redeployment to a suitable position,
    or training/retraining following the identification of a suitable position.
An offer of appointment to a position may be made for a trial period subject to satisfactory performance
    of the duties of the position. Where training/retraining is required it must form part of a trial
    period (see B/11.3.5 paragraph g(ii)).
Where a staff member rejects a formal offer of redeployment to a suitable position or where a suitable
    position cannot be located during the search period, the employment of the staff member will be terminated
    with appropriate entitlements under the redundancy provisions for involuntary redundancy of the relevant
    enterprise agreement less the salary paid during the redeployment search period.
The relinquishing cost centre of the staff member to be redeployed will be responsible for any
    costs associated with:
training/retraining;
the salary of the redeployee for the first three months of redeployment; and
covering the cost of the difference between the staff member's current salary and the salary
      of the staff member redeployed to a position at a lower salary classification (for 12 months).
Top 
11.3.4 Roles and responsibilities 
a) Staff Member
A staff member is required to participate fully in the redeployment process by:
Actively searching and applying for advertised positions including short term positions advertised
    through QUT e-mail;
Attending interviews;
Keeping in regular contact with their HR case manager; and
Giving serious consideration to position offers.
b) Current local manager
The current local manager is required to support their staff member by:
Continuing to provide appropriate duties and responsibilities for the staff member during the redeployment
    search period;
Ensuring the staff member has appropriate resources and time to effectively search and apply for
    positions, and attend interviews / training;
Liaising with the HR case manager;
Where appropriate, assisting the staff member to obtain a new position;
Ensuring identified training is provided and financed by the Department/School;
Complying with all financial obligations (see section B/11.3.3, paragraph (l) above); and
Ensuring immediate release of the staff member if a suitable position is found and accepted.
c) Human Resources Department case manager
To ensure full compliance of the redeployment process, the HR case manager will take responsibility
  for:
Liaising with all parties involved in the redeployment process;
Ensuring the University meets its obligations with respect to the relevant enterprise bargaining
    agreements;
Informing HR staff on up to date information regarding staff to be redeployed;
Ensuring the advertising of appropriate positions is suspended whilst the potential local manager
    assesses the staff member's suitability; and
Facilitating the redeployment process to completion.
d) Potential local manager
When attempting to fill a vacant position the potential local manager will be responsible for:
Assessing the staff member's suitability against the position selection criteria;
Providing the HR case manager with a written assessment if the staff member is deemed unsuitable
    for the position;
Interviewing the staff member to determine if suitable for the vacant position;
Providing a written assessment if staff member is deemed not suitable after the interview stage;
    and
Completing appointment process and liaising with HR case manager and current local manager if the
    staff member is selected for position.
Top 
11.3.5 Redeployment procedures and process 
Positions may be identified as surplus to the University's requirements following the procedures outlined
  in the relevant enterprise agreement (ie for professional staff refer to 
clause
  53
- Voluntary and Involuntary Redundancy ; for academic staff refer to 
clause
  11
- Change Resulting in Job Losses , and 
clause
  45
- Voluntary and Involuntary Redundancy ; for senior staff refer to 
clause
22
Voluntary and Involuntary Redundancy).
In accordance with the relevant enterprise agreement, a staff member whose position has been declared
  redundant will be advised in writing of their options. One of the options available will be to seek
  redeployment.
If a staff member selects the option of redeployment, they must respond in writing within 10 working
  days of the written advice. The process of redeployment will commence immediately upon notification
  from the staff member that they seek to be redeployed.
(a) Step 1 Initiating the process
Where the staff member elects to pursue redeployment and provides written advice to the University,
  the Human Resources Director will appoint a case manager who will arrange a meeting with the staff
  member to:
explain in detail the redeployment and redundancy processes, and the roles and responsibilities
    of each party;
advise of assistance available in the preparation of resumes and job search skills;
determine redeployment preferences in order to develop a staff member profile;
discuss and identify any appropriate training activities which would enhance the prospects of redeployment;
    and
answer any questions about the procedures and process.
During this initial period the staff member should complete the updating of their resume and forward
  it to the HR case manager.
(b) Step 2 Position search
After the commencement of the redeployment process, there will be a redeployment search period (see
  B/11.3.3 paragraph(e) above) during which time the University and the staff member will actively seek
  to locate a suitable position for the staff member.
For positions of less than 6 months duration, the staff member is responsible for monitoring the QUT
  e-mail system for suitable short-term positions (less than 6 months) that will be advertised in this
  way. The staff member should apply directly to the potential local manager advising they are currently
  seeking redeployment and advise the HR case manager.
For positions of greater than 6 months duration or for on-going positions, the HR case manager will
  liaise with all HR officers on a weekly basis regarding positions that are submitted for advertising,
  advising HR officers of the current staff member/s searching for a position, job types and levels sought.
Before any action is taken on position advertisements, the HR case manager in conjunction with the
  HR officer will check each vacant position to determine if any position matches the staff member's
  profile.
(c) Step 3 Suitable position/s located
If the HR officer locates a position that may match the staff member's profile, all documentation
  including the advertisement and the position's duty statement and selection criteria, will be sent
  to the HR case manager for follow up. If the HR case manager determines that the position/s is not
  appropriate, the HR officer will be advised.
If the HR case manager determines that a position to be advertised may be appropriate for the staff
  member, the HR case manager will:
advise the HR officer that the advertisement is to be suspended (see B/11.3.3 c));
advise the staff member of the suitable position and give the staff member two working days to
    address the position selection criteria together with the option of updating their resume;
contact the manager of the area in which the position is located (ie potential local manager) and
    discuss; and
send the staff member's resume and statement addressing the selection criteria to the potential
    local manager for assessment with letter explaining the redeployment process.
(d) Step 4 Assessment by potential local manager
The potential local manager will make an assessment of the staff member's resume and statement addressing
  the selection criteria and determine the staff member's suitability for the position.
If it is deemed the staff member may be suitable for the position the HR case manager will be advised
  and an interview will be arranged as part of the recruitment process. If the staff member is deemed
  suitable the potential local manager will submit a recommendation to the authorising officer for appointment.
If the staff member is deemed not suitable, the potential local manager will provide the HR case manager
  with a written assessment against the position's selection criteria.
(e) Step 5 Assessment by Human Resources Department
On receiving the written assessment from the potential local manager outlining the lack of suitability
  of the staff member against the position's selection criteria, the HR case manager will review such
  assessment to ensure suitable justification is provided.
The HR case manager will:
advise the staff member and the local manager of the outcome; and
advise the HR officer that the advertisement for the position can proceed.
If the written assessment does not provide sufficient justification, all relevant case documentation
  will be sent to the HR Director or nominee for consideration. The documentation will be reviewed by
  the HR Director or nominee, in relation to the staff member's suitability for the vacant position.
If the HR Director or nominee determines that sufficient justification is provided by the potential
  local manager, the documentation will be returned to the HR case manager who will advise the staff
  member and the HR officer of the outcome and the position search continues.
If the HR Director or nominee determines that insufficient justification has been provided by the
  potential local manager's assessment, the case will be referred to the Vice-Chancellor for assessment
  and determination.
(f) Step 6 Assessment by Vice-Chancellor
On receiving the redeployment case from the HR Director, the Vice-Chancellor will review the assessment
  and either confirm the potential local manager's assessment or override it.
In accordance with B/11.3.3 paragraph (f) above, if the Vice-Chancellor determines the staff member
  is suitable for the vacant position, the Vice-Chancellor can override the assessment and appoint the
  staff member to the vacancy.
The HR Director will be advised and in turn the HR case manager will advise all parties involved,
  of the outcome.
(g) Step 7 Appointment
Should the staff member be selected for a position during the redeployment search period or appointed
  to a position by the Vice-Chancellor, a formal offer will be sent to the staff member. The staff member
  will have five days to consider whether to accept or reject the formal offer of redeployment to a position.
Appointment to fixed-term positions: Staff members appointed to a fixed-term position during the
      redeployment search period will remain on the redeployment program for the remainder of the redeployment
      search period. During this time the University will continue to seek a suitable on-going position
  for redeployment.
However, if at the expiry of the search period the staff member has not been appointed to a
      suitable on-going position for redeployment, the staff member's employment will be terminated
      with appropriate entitlements under the redundancy provisions for involuntary redundancy of
  the relevant enterprise bargaining agreement. (see B/11.3.3 paragraph (h)).
Trial period: An offer of redeployment to a position may be made for a trial period. A trial period
    will be for up to 3 months commencing from the date of redeployment into the vacant position. This
    period may be extended by the mutual agreement of the supervisor and the staff member, for example,
    where training/retraining is required.
Formal documented assessments of the suitability of the staff member in the position will be
    held between the staff member and the supervisor, in the middle of the trial period and prior
    to the end of the trial period. These assessments will be based on the staff member demonstrating
    satisfactory performance of the duties of the position. These assessments would also involve
    the HR case manager.
If a staff member applies for an advertised position during the trial period, their application
    will not be considered to be part of the redeployment process.
At the end of the trial period, the staff member will be advised, either that the appointment
    to the position will be confirmed, or that they are not suitable for the position and that
    their employment will be terminated with appropriate entitlements under the redundancy provisions
    for involuntary redundancy of the relevant enterprise agreement, less the redeployment search
    period. Where a decision is made that the trial period is unsuccessful, the staff member will
  be provided with reasons for this decision.
Training/retraining: A reasonable period of training/retraining
       will not normally be greater than 3 months. Reasonable retraining usually involves on the job
     training or attendance at short courses. The relinquishing cost centre will be responsible for any
     costs associated with training/retraining. Where training/retraining is required, it must form part
     of a trial period (see above). 
Rejection of offer: Where a staff member's rejection of a formal offer of appointment to a suitable
        position is determined to be unreasonable by the HR Director, the employment of the staff member
        will be terminated with appropriate entitlements under the redundancy provisions for involuntary
        redundancy of the relevant enterprise agreement less the salary paid during the redeployment
    search period.
Step 8 End of redeployment period
Where, at the conclusion of the redeployment search period, the staff member has not been redeployed,
  the employment of the staff member will be terminated with appropriate entitlements under the redundancy
  provisions for involuntary redundancy of the relevant enterprise agreement less the salary paid during
  the redeployment search period.
Top 
11.3.6 Entitlements 
During the redeployment and notice periods, staff members will be entitled to receive those benefits
  with respect to time off to seek other employment as provided by the relevant enterprise agreement.
  Staff members will also continue to accrue normal leave entitlements.
Top 
Related Documents 
This policy must be read in conjunction with the following:
for professional staff - 
QUT
        Enterprise Bargaining Agreement (Professional Staff)
- Clause
        11 Managing Change, Clause 53 Voluntary and Involuntary Redundancy, and Clause 54 Redeployment
for academic staff - 
QUT
        Enterprise Bargaining Agreement (Academic Staff)
- Clause 10 Managing
        Change, Clause 11 Change resulting from job losses, Clause 27 Categories of Appointment, Clause
        45 Voluntary and Involuntary Redundancy and Clause 46 Redeployment.
for senior staff – 
QUT Employee Collective Agreement (Senior Staff) 2009-2012
- Clause 22 Voluntary and Involuntary Redundancy
The provisions contained in the above enterprise agreements detail the processes to be followed by
  the University where positions are identified as redundant and the entitlements of staff members with
  respect to notice periods and voluntary and involuntary redundancy.
Top 
Modification History 
Date
Sections
Source
Details
17.11.05
All
Vice-Chancellor
Revised policy to comply with Higher Education Workplace Relations Requirements (HEWRR)
23.08.00
All
Council
New policy
Top 
    Chapter A | Chapter B | Chapter C | Chapter D | Chapter E | Chapter F | Chapter G | Chapter H | Chapter I | Appendices | Protocol for MOPP Policy | Recent Updates
    QUT Home | MOPP Home
    CRICOS No. 00213J
    Privacy | Copyright | Accessibility
    Last modified 12-May-2010
    Contact us | Feedback | Disclaimer
