QUT | MOPP | B/11.4 Voluntary and involuntary redundancy - senior staff
            QUT&nbsp;Home
          Contact&nbsp;us
          Search
      MOPP Home
      Protocol for MOPP Policy
      Recent Updates
      B/11.4 Voluntary and involuntary redundancy - senior staff
Chapters
A - Governance/Organisation
B - Human Resources
C - Learning/Teaching
D - Research/Development
E - Student Administration
F - Information Management
G - Financial Management
H - Physical Facilities
I - International/Community
MOPP Appendices
MOPP Protocol
MOPP Updates
[Print-friendly version]
Contact OfficerPrincipal HR Advisor (Policy and Workplace Relations) 
Approval Date07/09/2009 
Approval AuthorityVice-Chancellor 
Date of Next Review01/09/2012 
11.4.1 Policy 
11.4.2 Application 
11.4.3 Process 
Related Documents 
Modification History 
11.4.1 Policy 
QUT may declare ongoing senior staff positions redundant, in accordance with the provisions of the
QUT Employee Collective Agreement (Senior Staff) 2009-2012
Positions may become surplus to the University's requirements for reasons of an economic, technological,
  structural or similar nature, including:
a decrease in student demand or enrolments in any academic course or subject, or combination or
    mix of courses or subjects, conducted on one or more campuses;
a decision to cease offering or curtail a particular service or activity;
a decision to cease offering or vary the academic content of any course or subject, or combination
    or mix of courses or subjects, conducted on one or more campuses;
financial exigency within an organisational unit or cost centre;
changes in technology or work methods; or
changes imposed through legislative amendment.
Top 
11.4.2 Application 
This policy applies to senior staff members employed on an ongoing basis  and excludes senior staff employed on a fixed-term basis.
The benefits payable, as outlined in the QUT Employee  Collective Agreement (Senior Staff) 2009-2012 (Clause 22.3) will not be  available to senior staff members under the following circumstances:
  where the staff member has not been a continuous employee of the  University for a period of at least 12 months;
  where the staff member is subject to a transfer of business; or,
  where the University obtains suitable alternative employment for the  staff member.
Top 
11.4.3 Process 
Where positions are identified as surplus to requirements of the University, the following steps will
  apply.
Step 1 - Voluntary Redundancy
Where the University identifies a need to achieve staff reductions, it may call for applications from
  staff members interested in voluntary redundancy. Applications may be sought from staff members across
  the University, or from staff members in specifically identified areas.
The call for applications will be made in writing and will include the timelines relevant to the process
  for receipt, consideration and approval of applications. For voluntary redundancy the process will
  normally take up to six weeks to complete and will involve the following steps:
    A staff member may make application within the period specified
    	The Vice-Chancellor has the discretion to accept or reject any staff member's application.
    	The Vice-Chancellor will inform the staff member whether the application is accepted, or will provide
    a staff member with reasons for not accepting an application.
Where an application is accepted by the Vice-Chancellor, consultation will occur as soon as possible
    between the staff member and their supervisor to determine a termination date.
Staff whose applications for voluntary redundancy are approved will receive benefits as outlined in
  the QUT Employee Collective Agreement (Senior Staff) 2009-2012  (Clause 22) payable on the day of their termination date.
Step 2 - Involuntary Redundancy
Where the voluntary measures outlined above do not achieve the appropriate staff reductions, the University
  may identify specific positions as surplus. Following the identification of these positions the following
  process will occur:
The University will hold discussions with the staff member(s) directly affected and where applicable
    with the staff representative as defined in the QUT Employee Collective Agreement (Senior Staff) 2009-2012 (Clause 22). The
    discussions will take place as soon as practicable after the University has made a decision to declare
    the position(s) redundant and will cover the following:
the reasons for the position(s) becoming surplus;
measures to avoid or minimise the redundancies; and
measures to mitigate any adverse effects on the staff member(s) concerned.
All relevant information and data will be provided to staff to assist in the consultations.
Following these discussions the Vice-Chancellor may formally notify a staff member(s) that their
    position is surplus to the University's requirements. A staff member who applied for voluntary redundancy
    and whose application was rejected cannot be made redundant under the arrangements for involuntary
    redundancy.
Within 10 working days of notification, the staff member may elect one of the following
  options and notify the Vice-Chancellor in writing:
agree to the redundancy and consult with their supervisor as soon as possible to determine a termination
    date; or
seek redeployment in accordance with the relevant provisions of the University's policy on redeployment.
B/11.3
Staff who accept involuntary redundancy will receive benefits as outlined in the 
QUT Employee Collective Agreement (Senior Staff) 2009-2012 (Clause 22) payable on the day of their termination date.
Consultation will occur as soon as possible between the staff member and their supervisor to determine
  a termination date.
Where a staff member elects to seek redeployment, and where at the end of the redeployment search
  period the staff member has not been redeployed, the staff member will receive the benefits for involuntary
  redundancy outlined in the 
QUT Employee Collective Agreement (Senior Staff) 2009-2012
less the redeployment search
  period.
The redeployment search period for senior staff members is 12 weeks.
Top 
Related Documents 
QUT Employee Collective Agreement (Senior Staff) 2009-2012
Top 
Modification History 
Date
Sections
Source
Details
   07.09.09
   All
   Vice-Chancellor
  Policy revised to reflect provisions of the Employee Collective  Agreement (Senior Staff) 2009-2012
06.07.05
All
Vice-Chancellor
New policy resulting from Certified Agreement Senior Staff 2005-2008
Top 
    Chapter A | Chapter B | Chapter C | Chapter D | Chapter E | Chapter F | Chapter G | Chapter H | Chapter I | Appendices | Protocol for MOPP Policy | Recent Updates
    QUT Home | MOPP Home
    CRICOS No. 00213J
    Privacy | Copyright | Accessibility
    Last modified 12-May-2010
    Contact us | Feedback | Disclaimer
