QUT | MOPP | B/12.3 Study assistance scheme for professional and academic staff
            QUT&nbsp;Home
          Contact&nbsp;us
          Search
      MOPP Home
      Protocol for MOPP Policy
      Recent Updates
      B/12.3 Study assistance scheme for professional and academic staff
Chapters
A - Governance/Organisation
B - Human Resources
C - Learning/Teaching
D - Research/Development
E - Student Administration
F - Information Management
G - Financial Management
H - Physical Facilities
I - International/Community
MOPP Appendices
MOPP Protocol
MOPP Updates
[Print-friendly version]
Contact OfficerSenior HR Officer (Client Services - Organisational Development) 
Approval Date18/10/2002 
Approval AuthorityVice-Chancellor 
Date of Next Review01/07/2005 
12.3.1 Eligibility and approved courses 
12.3.2 Application for course approval 
12.3.3 Levels of study assistance 
12.3.4 Financial assistance 
12.3.5 Leave for class attendance, study, and examinations 
12.3.6 Compulsory and non-compulsory residential schools 
12.3.7 Appeal procedures 
Modification History 
    THIS POLICY IS CURRENTLY UNDER REVIEW -
    CONTACT Senior HUMAN RESOURCES Officer  FOR FURTHER DETAILS.    
The QUT Study Assistance Scheme is designed to encourage personal and professional 
  development of staff and to benefit the University as a whole. Financial assistance 
  and leave to attend classes and examinations may be granted to eligible staff 
  members enrolled in an approved course.
For the purposes of this section, the authorising officer is the head of school/department/ 
  independent section (or executive dean/head of division where the staff member is not 
  located in a school/department/independent section).
Top 
12.3.1 Eligibility and approved courses 
No assistance under the scheme, whether financial or otherwise, can be made 
  to any staff member unless prior approval, through the Human Resources Department 
  on the recommendation of the appropriate authorising officer, has been granted 
  for the course of study to be undertaken. Courses of study are categorised under 
  three levels of support as detailed below.
On-going and fixed term full-time staff members, and part-time staff members 
  (not casual staff) who have an appointment of 12 months or more are eligible 
  to apply for study assistance, provided they are citizens of Australia or reside 
  on an ongoing basis in Australia.
Part-time staff receive pro-rata benefits, such as pro-rata reimbursement of 
  course fees calculated according to the proportion of full time hours they work.
Types of study
Approval may be granted for courses of study undertaken at secondary and tertiary 
  levels. Courses may be undertaken at or through approved educational institutions 
  or approved private examining bodies.
An approved educational institution or private examining body is an organisation 
  widely accepted and accredited to provide teaching or facilities for assessment 
  of results in the area of study concerned, including universities, TAFE and 
  registered agencies.
As far as possible, studies should be taken in metropolitan or near metropolitan 
  areas. The authorising officer is asked to certify the appropriateness of higher 
  degree studies undertaken outside the greater Brisbane area when approving courses 
  of study.
Top 
12.3.2 Application for course approval 
Approval of a course of study is at the discretion of the authorising officer.
Application for course approval must be made on the prescribed form which 
  is available from the Human 
  Resources Department. The staff member should complete an Application 
  for Course Approval form, and forward it to their authorising officer for recommendation. 
  The authorising officer will assess each application on the grounds of relevance 
  to the applicant's personal and professional development and QUT needs. Applications, 
  recommended and authorised by the authorising officer, are forwarded to Human 
  Resources Department for verification regarding University policy and final 
  approval. The applicant and the authorising officer are notified of the result 
  in writing.
Approval of a course of study operates for the entire period of the course, 
  subject to satisfactory progress in study as well as in performance of duties. 
  Therefore, once initial approval is given for a total course, further applications 
  for course approval are unnecessary provided the course and educational institution 
  remain the same. However, should a staff member change organisational areas 
  during this time, approval must be sought from the new authorising officer.
Should the staff member's work status change, the level of assistance from the 
  University will also change. Assistance from the University is provided on a 
  pro rata basis, and is calculated according to the percentage ratio of time 
  the staff member is employed compared to a full-time position. For example, 
  a staff member who is employed on a part-time basis (50 per cent) receives half 
  of the approved financial assistance and exam leave available to full-time staff 
  members.
Upon cessation of employment with the University, Study Assistance will also 
  cease.
Application for course or category change
A staff member may seek transfer of assistance to another category at any stage 
  of an approved course of study, subject to the conditions of the category concerned.
Applications for course change or transfer of category must be supported by 
  the authorising officer, and forwarded to the Human Resources Department for 
  verification.
Top 
12.3.3 Levels of study assistance 
Courses of study are categorised under the following criteria to determine 
  the level of financial or study leave assistance offered to approved staff.
Category A
applies where a staff member is required to enrol in 
    a particular course as a condition of employment. This condition will be explicitly 
    stated in the staff member's written offer of appointment;
Category B
applies where the course of study will directly contribute 
    to the staff member's performance of duties or anticipated duties, identified 
    from a consultative process. (for example, Performance Planning and Review 
    meetings). Category B status is awarded where:
for courses with undergraduate status or lower, 50 per cent of course 
      content directly relates to the staff member's duties or anticipated duties 
      (for example, duties of positions with QUT which have been identified in 
      a consultation process as part of the staff member's career path)
for postgraduate and second degree courses, 75 per cent of course content 
      directly relates to the staff member's duties or anticipated duties;
Category C
applies where the study course is of a general nature, 
    not directly related to the specific employment of the staff member, but is 
    relevant to other positions in QUT and contributes to the continuing development 
    of the staff member as an individual.
Top 
12.3.4 Financial assistance 
Assistance from the University is provided on a pro rata basis, and is calculated 
  according to the percentage ratio of time the staff member is employed compared 
  to a full-time position. For example, a staff member who is employed on a part-time 
  basis (50 per cent) receives half of the approved financial assistance available 
  to full-time staff members.
Conditions of fee reimbursement
Reimbursement of fees for all categories is subject to the following conditions:
fees will only be reimbursed in cases where course approval has been granted. 
    Reimbursement for study prior to the date of course approval will not be supported;
fees will only be reimbursed for units passed. Where partial failure of 
    a course program is recorded in an academic year, a pro rata system of reimbursement 
    based on number of units passed will operate;
reimbursement of fees is available only where staff undertake approved 
    study for the majority of a prescribed educational period, eg a semester or 
    term;
reimbursement of fees is only available to staff who elect to pay by the 
    upfront method;
a staff member holding a scholarship providing payment of fees will be 
    reimbursed for fees not met by the award;
a staff member must furnish evidence of satisfactory performance in units 
    where reimbursement of fees claimed, for example, copy of results or supervisor's 
    statement.
Where a staff member claims special circumstances such as poor performance 
  in studies as a result of mitigating circumstances or late withdrawal of studies, 
  the decision of the educational institution regarding such events will be taken 
  into account when considering an application for reimbursement of fees.
Levels of fee reimbursement
Where study programs have been approved and the above conditions have been satisfied, 
  reimbursements will apply as follows.
Costs of preparation of master and doctoral degree theses will be subsidised 
  under the scheme to limits determined by the Registrar. Human Resources staff 
  can advise of these amounts.
Categories A and B: QUT will refund to staff who have had applications approved, 
  all statutory fees (excluding penalty fees) levied by the institution conducting 
  the course including tuition, examination, union or guild fees, compulsory equipment 
  fees, and expenses of compulsory field excursions.
QUT will also refund student contribution amounts to staff who have had applications approved, in cases where staff have elected to pay 
up-front 
the amount owing for a semester by the appropriate date. The University 
will not reimburse
student contribution amounts to staff who elect to pay through the taxation system (
HECS-HELP
). Faculties/divisions, schools/departments that elect to pay any contribution amounts on behalf of the staff member will not be reimbursed from the Study Assistance Scheme.
Similarly, the University 
will not reimburse
monies to staff engaged in postgraduate study who elect to defer fees to the 
FEE-HELP
program. All fees must be paid up-front.
Category C: The University will assist by refunding student union or guild fees, and fees for secondary school studies. QUT will not refund student contribution amounts, fees for post-graduate studies or other tuition fees.
Application for reimbursement of fees
Reimbursement of fees will be made at the end of each semester. Student union 
  or guild fees will be reimbursed on a semester or yearly basis, subject to the 
  manner of payment pursued at the educational institution. Application forms 
  are available from the Human Resources Department, and when completed should 
  be forwarded to Corporate Finance Department for reimbursement. If special 
  consideration for the reimbursement of fees is required, then the completed 
  forms should be forwarded to the Human Resources Department.The staff member 
  will assist the fee reimbursement process by:
completion of the prescribed Application for Reimbursement form;
attachment of original receipts and a copy of the original receipts;
attachment of statement of results of units for which reimbursement is 
    requested or attachment of statement of satisfactory progress from the academic 
    supervisor in appropriate cases
Top 
12.3.5 Leave for class attendance, study, and examinations 
Where possible, staff members should arrange study schedules that will not 
  adversely affect their work commitments.
Leave to attend classes
For academic staff members, leave to attend classes will be arranged within 
  the context of Performance Planning and Review meetings.
Professional staff members, according to their approved category of study, are encouraged 
  to attend classes at times which provide minimum disruption to the work area.
Part-time professional staff are not eligible for leave to attend classes during 
  their working hours. Working hours shall be arranged between the supervisor 
  and the staff member so as to facilitate attendance at classes.
Where study programs have been approved under the categories described in section 
  B/12.3.3, the following leave benefits will apply. Notwithstanding that the 
  authorising officer is unable to certify that the leave will not unduly disrupt 
  the operations of the area and no satisfactory alternative exists, authorising 
  officers are encouraged to grant leave on the basis that time will be made up 
  by the staff member at a time of mutual convenience.
Category A: A maximum of eight hours leave on full pay to attend classes during 
  work hours may be granted in any one week.
Category B: Leave on full pay to attend classes during work hours may be granted 
  (up to eight hours in any one week, maximum 4 hours per unit) where the authorising 
  officer certifies that the leave will not unduly disrupt the operations of the 
  area.
Considerations which can be taken into account include:
the employment of temporary staff;
shared responsibilities with other staff members in neighbouring areas;
redeployment of other staff;
switching of telephones to alternative offices.
Category C: Leave on full pay to attend classes may be granted (up to five 
  hours in any one week) where the authorising officer certifies that the leave 
  will not unduly disrupt the operations of the area and where either of the following 
  conditions apply:
classes are available only during the staff member's work hours;
the staff member is concurrently enrolled in units that require attendance 
    on at least two evenings per week.
Considerations which can be taken into account regarding disruption of normal 
  area operations are detailed under Category B in this section.
Examination leave
Leave on full pay to attend examinations is available for units of an approved 
  course. Examination leave also includes the mornings of days in which examinations 
  are held in the afternoon as well as the time spent travelling to and from the 
  examination centre.
Application for examination leave is made on an Application for Leave form 
  available from the Human Resources Department. The relevant unit code should 
  be shown on the application form.
Part-time staff should arrange work rosters around examination periods. Only 
  if this is not possible can an application for leave to attend examinations 
  be made. Each case will be assessed on its merits.
Examination leave is not available for take home examinations except where 
  the duration of the exam is 24 hours or less. In these circumstances staff may 
  apply for half a day's leave on full pay.
Study leave for examinations
Leave to study for examinations is available on a pro rata basis to full-time 
  staff members and on-going part-time staff members. At the option of the staff 
  member, leave shall be either without pay or deducted from the staff member's 
  recreation leave entitlement on a half day or full day debit basis.
Leave is available to a maximum of two working days per unit in any one year, 
  and to a maximum of 8 working days in any one year for all units undertaken 
  as part of an approved course of study. Granting of leave is subject to the 
  operational convenience of the area and is restricted to a period just prior 
  to the date of examination.
Additional leave
A staff member undertaking an approved course of study can apply for additional 
  leave for study or class attendance purposes. Granting of such leave is subject 
  to operational convenience and the approval of the authorising officer. Such 
  leave shall be at the option of the staff member either without pay or deducted 
  from the staff member's recreation leave entitlement, on part-time release or 
  extended absence on proportionally reduced salary.
Full-time study leave
Refer to the relevant Professional Development Program policy for further information 
  on full-time study leave (
B/12.7
for 
  academic staff and 
B/12.8
for professional 
  staff).
Applications for leave
Applications for leave to attend classes may be made once course approval notification 
  is received (for professional staff only). Application forms are available from the 
  Human Resources Department.
Top 
12.3.6 Compulsory and non-compulsory residential schools 
Both academic and professional  staff must make application for assistance to attend 
  a compulsory or non-compulsory residential school. Documentary evidence that 
  attendance at the school is compulsory must accompany the application. Application 
  forms for leave to attend residential schools are available from the Human Resources 
  Department.
Compulsory residential schools may be attended on leave with pay and non-compulsory 
  residential schools on leave without pay according to the approved category 
  of study as follows.
Leave shall include travel to and from a compulsory residential school where 
  such travel cannot be undertaken outside the standard working day. Residential 
  schools do not include visits to supervisors required as part of research degrees.
Category A: Compulsory residential schools may be attended through leave with 
  pay to a maximum of 20 working days per annum.
Reimbursement of the staff member's actual expenses is available for travel 
  to and from the compulsory residential school at any time of the calendar week. 
  This travel can be either by train, bus, private vehicle or single return air-fare 
  (at the most economical rate) on the approval of the Human Resources Department.
Reimbursement to prescribed limits (see
B/6.2
) is available for expenses incurred for accommodation and meals whilst 
  travelling to and from the compulsory residential school and during the school.
Non-compulsory residential schools may be attended through leave without pay 
  to a maximum of 20 working days per annum or through deduction from recreation 
  leave on a half-day or full day debit basis.
Category B: Compulsory residential schools may be attended through leave with 
  pay to a maximum of 15 working days per annum, with additional necessary leave 
  being without pay to a maximum of five working days per annum, or through deduction 
  from recreation leave on a half day or full day debit basis.
Reimbursement of travel, accommodation and meal expenses is available as for 
  Category A except for costs of accommodation and meals during the compulsory 
  residential school.
Non-compulsory residential schools may be attended through leave without pay 
  to a maximum of 20 working days per annum or through deduction from recreation 
  leave on a half day or full day debit basis.
Category C: Compulsory residential schools may be attended through leave with 
  pay to a maximum of five working days per annum, with additional necessary leave 
  being either without pay to a maximum of five working days, or through deduction 
  from recreation leave on a half day or full day debit basis.
No costs for accommodation at the compulsory residential school or for travel 
  to and from the compulsory residential school are provided under this category.
Non-compulsory residential schools, including travel to and from the schools, 
  can be attended to a maximum of 10 working days per annum through leave without 
  pay or through deduction from recreation leave on a half day or full day debit 
  basis.
Financial assistance concerning attendance at non-compulsory residential 
  schools
Financial assistance for attendance at non-compulsory residential schools for 
  categories A or B may be approved by the Associate Director (Strategic Services), 
  Human Resources Department , provided the content covered in the residential 
  school is relevant to the duties of the staff member.
Top 
12.3.7 Appeal procedures 
Staff members seeking to appeal against a decision made upon any matter relating 
  to the granting of Study Assistance shall refer the matter to the Associate 
  Director (Strategic Services), Human Resources Department in the first instance.
The Associate Director (Strategic Services), Human Resources Department , with 
  the Human Resources Director, shall seek to resolve the issue with the staff 
  member and the respective manager. Failing this, the staff member may make use 
  of the University's grievance resolution procedures (see 
B/10.1
Top 
Modification History 
Date
Sections
Source
Details
20.12.04
B/12.3.4
Registrar's Office
Editorial amendment (consistent with Higher Education Support Act 2003 and related Guidelines)
18.10.02
B/12.3.4
Vice-Chancellor
Revised policy
Top 
    Chapter A | Chapter B | Chapter C | Chapter D | Chapter E | Chapter F | Chapter G | Chapter H | Chapter I | Appendices | Protocol for MOPP Policy | Recent Updates
    QUT Home | MOPP Home
    CRICOS No. 00213J
    Privacy | Copyright | Accessibility
    Last modified 27-Aug-2010
    Contact us | Feedback | Disclaimer
