QUT | MOPP | B/12.9 Job exchange program for professional staff
            QUT&nbsp;Home
          Contact&nbsp;us
          Search
      MOPP Home
      Protocol for MOPP Policy
      Recent Updates
      B/12.9 Job exchange program for professional staff
Chapters
A - Governance/Organisation
B - Human Resources
C - Learning/Teaching
D - Research/Development
E - Student Administration
F - Information Management
G - Financial Management
H - Physical Facilities
I - International/Community
MOPP Appendices
MOPP Protocol
MOPP Updates
[Print-friendly version]
Contact OfficerManager, Policy Planning and Workplace Relations, HR 
Approval Date 
Approval AuthorityVice-Chancellor 
Date of Next Review01/07/2005 
12.9.1 Eligibility 
12.9.2 Location 
12.9.3 Duration and timing 
12.9.4 Exchange process 
12.9.5 Salary and conditions 
12.9.6 Financial arrangements 
12.9.7 Accommodation arrangements 
12.9.8 Exchange commitments 
    THIS POLICY IS CURRENTLY UNDER REVIEW - 
    CONTACT manager, Policy Planning and Workplace Relations, hr FOR FURTHER DETAILS.
The University supports and encourages schemes which provide for exchange 
  between its staff members and staff members at other institutions and organisations. 
While it is recognised that job exchange is rewarding for both individuals 
  and organisations, the aims of a job exchange program are to enhance the staff 
  member's personal development while providing opportunities for staff to broaden 
  their experience in their particular discipline or area of expertise. These 
  aims are achieved by enabling individuals to exchange with staff in relevant 
  Australian or overseas institutions or appropriate commercial or government 
  positions.
Top 
12.9.1 Eligibility 
All full-time professional staff are eligible to participate in a job exchange program. 
  However, before a staff member can undertake a job exchange, he or she must 
  have completed a minimum of 12 months aggregate service.
Top 
12.9.2 Location 
The best location for an exchange is that which:
provides the staff member with the best opportunity for personal development;
enables a suitably qualified and skilled exchange to replace the staff 
    member concerned.
Top 
12.9.3 Duration and timing 
The period of absence from the University will be subject to negotiation between 
  exchangees and their institutions. Usually, a maximum job exchange is 12 months.
Top 
12.9.4 Exchange process 
A significant part of initial exchange arrangements is carried out between 
  exchangees. It is important that the head of department/school or independent 
  section manager is aware of and supports the negotiations.
With respect to the exchangee from the other organisation, it is essential to 
  ensure that:
the employing organisation supports the exchange;
the incoming individual possesses qualifications, experience and skills 
    for the particular position and level of responsibility;
the incoming person is fully aware of and prepared to accept the conditions 
    of employment relevant to the exchange position.
In the case of an overseas exchange, the staff member should ensure that the 
  exchange arrangements are consistent with immigration guidelines.
The exchangee, the respective head of department/school or independent section 
  manager and the Human Resources Director from each institution signs a memorandum 
  of agreement. The memorandum of agreement outlines the exchangee's assignments, 
  obligations and other understandings for the period of the exchange. For an 
  example of a memorandum of agreement, contact the Human Resources Department 
  (Client Services).
The Human Resources Department is notified of exchange arrangements so that 
  personnel records are kept up to date. The Human Resources Department (Client 
  Services) is available to assist in exchange arrangements.
In the case of an overseas exchange, QUT must send a letter outlining exchange 
  details, together with a copy of the finalised Memorandum of Agreement to the 
  Department of Immigration, Local Government and Ethnic Affairs.
It is the exchangee's responsibility to arrange and pay for appropriate passports 
  and visas required for overseas job exchanges.
Top 
12.9.5 Salary and conditions 
Outgoing staff are paid their normal salary by QUT. It is the staff member's 
  responsibility to make salary payment arrangements with the pay office for the 
  period of the exchange.
Incoming participants are paid by their home institution.
A staff member's normal salary and conditions of employment entitlement accrue 
  during any period of paid job exchange. Any leave applications submitted during 
  the exchange will be sent to the exchangee's employer (Human Resources Department) 
  via the host supervisor.
While on exchange, a staff member remains on the University payroll, and will 
  be covered by the University's insurance policy which provides compensation 
  for staff members injured in the course of their employment. For staff members 
  on job exchange overseas, this policy is limited to periods of exchange of up 
  to two years.
Top 
12.9.6 Financial arrangements 
Under normal circumstances, all costs (including airfares, insurance and relocation) 
are the responsibility of the staff member.
In special cases where it can be demonstrated that the exchange will be of 
  significant benefit to the University, requests for funding (as prescribed for 
  professional development program for professional  staff, see section 
B/12.8
) may be considered. In such cases, a special application must be 
made to the Professional Development Program Committee.
A staff member in receipt of financial assistance other than normal salary, 
  is required to conform to the conditions applicable under the professional development 
  program guidelines.
Top 
12.9.7 Accommodation arrangements 
All accommodation and relocation arrangements are the responsibility of the 
  exchangee.
Top 
12.9.8 Exchange commitments 
QUT will make every effort to meet all commitments made in the exchange program 
  for both outgoing and incoming exchanges, but reserves the right to withdraw 
  from those commitments with a minimum of 30 days notice should extenuating circumstances 
  arise.
Top 
    Chapter A | Chapter B | Chapter C | Chapter D | Chapter E | Chapter F | Chapter G | Chapter H | Chapter I | Appendices | Protocol for MOPP Policy | Recent Updates
    QUT Home | MOPP Home
    CRICOS No. 00213J
    Privacy | Copyright | Accessibility
    Last modified 27-Aug-2010
    Contact us | Feedback | Disclaimer
