QUT | MOPP | B/12.2 Staff orientation
            QUT&nbsp;Home
          Contact&nbsp;us
          Search
      MOPP Home
      Protocol for MOPP Policy
      Recent Updates
      B/12.2 Staff orientation
Chapters
A - Governance/Organisation
B - Human Resources
C - Learning/Teaching
D - Research/Development
E - Student Administration
F - Information Management
G - Financial Management
H - Physical Facilities
I - International/Community
MOPP Appendices
MOPP Protocol
MOPP Updates
[Print-friendly version]
Contact OfficerCoordinator, HR Organisational Development 
Approval Date04/03/2008 
Approval AuthorityVice-Chancellor 
Date of Next Review01/07/2011 
12.2.1 Orientation at QUT 
12.2.2 Workplace orientation 
12.2.3 QUT online induction
12.2.4 Welcome to QUT orientation seminars
12.2.5 Senior staff individual orientation program 
Related Documents Modification History 12.2.1 Orientation at QUT 
As a multi-campus institution, QUT acknowledges the importance of providing  new staff with an opportunity to establish contacts and define relationships  within and outside their work environment.
Consistent with its commitment to staff development, QUT promotes the  practice of orientating new staff members. Participation in orientation  initiatives is based upon the nature of the staff member's appointment with the  University.
Orientation mechanisms at QUT include: 
  workplace orientation;
  QUT induction (online) 
  &ldquo;Welcome to QUT&rdquo; orientation seminar 
  Senior staff individual orientation program.
Recommended levels of participation in orientation programs are as follows: 
  Ongoing and fixed-term academic       and professional staff - workplace orientation, QUT online induction and &ldquo;Welcome       to QUT&rdquo; orientation seminar; 
  Sessional academic and casual professional       staff - workplace orientation and QUT online induction;
  Senior staff - &ldquo;Welcome to QUT&rdquo;       orientation seminar and individual orientation program  
(see B/12.2.5). 
Top 
12.2.2 Workplace orientation 
Workplace orientation is an on-going process. The staff member's immediate  supervisor is responsible for ensuring that a suitable workplace orientation  program is developed for each staff member. 
Detailed workplace orientation guidelines are  available from the Human  Resources Department web page.
Top 
12.2.3 QUT online induction 
An online Induction program is available on the Human Resources website for new staff members starting at QUT. The program  introduces the University and its campuses, the range of benefits and services  available, and information on how to access key central services required to  start work at the University. 
Top 
12.2.4 Welcome to QUT orientation  seminars 
Upon commencement with the University all new staff, other than casual  professional and sessional academic staff, are required to attend the &ldquo;Welcome  to QUT&rdquo; orientation seminar.
These seminars are organised by the Human Resources Department in  collaboration with other divisions and  aim to facilitate a staff member's  integration into QUT by raising awareness of the goals of the University and assisting  the staff member to reflect upon their own role in relation to these goals.
The seminars complement workplace orientation programs  and the QUT online induction information by providing detailed information  about QUT and services available from specialist areas across the University.
Top 
12.2.5 Senior staff individual orientation program 
A tailored orientation program for new  senior staff must be developed by the organisational area, in consultation with  the Human Resources Department. It is recommended that the program be designed  to include the following:
  workplace orientation; 
  QUT online induction;
  meet with key senior staff of the University;  and,
  (optional) meet with the HR Organisational  Development Coordinator to discuss senior management development program  opportunities, the performance planning and review process, and other staff  development and human resources policies. 
Top 
Related Documents 
MOPP B/12.1 Staff development
Human Resources Department website 
Top 
Modification History 
Date
Sections
Source
Details
  04.03.08
   All
  Vice-Chancellor
  Revised policy
31.03.01
All
Human Resources Department
Updated
Top 
    Chapter A | Chapter B | Chapter C | Chapter D | Chapter E | Chapter F | Chapter G | Chapter H | Chapter I | Appendices | Protocol for MOPP Policy | Recent Updates
    QUT Home | MOPP Home
    CRICOS No. 00213J
    Privacy | Copyright | Accessibility
    Last modified 12-May-2010
    Contact us | Feedback | Disclaimer
