QUT | MOPP | B/12.6 Internal secondment
            QUT&nbsp;Home
          Contact&nbsp;us
          Search
      MOPP Home
      Protocol for MOPP Policy
      Recent Updates
      B/12.6 Internal secondment
Chapters
A - Governance/Organisation
B - Human Resources
C - Learning/Teaching
D - Research/Development
E - Student Administration
F - Information Management
G - Financial Management
H - Physical Facilities
I - International/Community
MOPP Appendices
MOPP Protocol
MOPP Updates
[Print-friendly version]
Contact OfficerManager, Policy Planning and Workplace Relations, HR 
Approval Date 
Approval AuthorityVice-Chancellor 
Date of Next Review01/07/2005 
12.6.1 Eligibility 
12.6.2 Description of scheme 
12.6.3 Costs 
12.6.4 Application Procedures 
    THIS POLICY IS CURRENTLY UNDER REVIEW - 
    CONTACT manager, Policy Planning and Workplace Relations, hr FOR FURTHER DETAILS.
Internal secondments are encouraged for the purpose of enhancing staff members' 
  career development and for better use of human resources throughout the University.
Internal secondments involve the temporary transfer of a staff member to another 
  position (which may be at a higher level), on a full-time or part-time basis, 
  within the University for a period of not more than twelve months. Arrangements 
  will be made by mutual consent between the heads of the relevant organisational 
  units and the staff member concerned. In such circumstances there must be an 
  agreement that at the end of the stated period the staff member will return 
  to his or her previously held position or to another agreed position.
Secondment of staff to another work area can be beneficial to both the organisation 
  and the individual. Organisationally, secondments can provide for the exchange 
  of information and ideas and the enhancement of organisational relationships. 
  Also, there may be benefits in the speedy recruitment of experienced staff who 
  are knowledgable of the organisation and 
proven performers
within 
  that environment. The individual can benefit by the attainment of particular 
  skills and knowledge which enhance career opportunities and personal development.
Internal secondments are not a substitute for professional development programs. 
Top 
12.6.1 Eligibility 
On-going and fixed-term staff are eligible to apply for secondment. This policy 
  does not apply to senior staff (SSG1 - SSG7).
Top 
12.6.2 Description of scheme 
Internal secondments of staff fall into two broad categories:
Category A
- where an organisational unit requires a staff member 
    for a specific purpose, such as to provide expertise or assistance on a project, 
    to fill a vacant position for periods of up to twelve months, or to meet peak 
    work demands.
For secondments under this category, the parties to the secondment may consider 
    it useful for a report to be provided by the secondee at the conclusion of 
    the secondment period. The provision of any such report must be agreed between 
    the parties prior to the commencement of the secondment;
Category B 
- where an organisational unit requires a project to be 
    completed and provides an opportunity for a staff member to be seconded to 
    another organisational unit responsible for developing the project. This category 
    would generally apply to staff seconded to another organisational unit (eg 
    Teaching and Learning Development Unit) in order to develop teaching materials 
    or conduct research directly involved with teaching and learning at QUT.
Secondments under this category are subject to support by the relevant heads 
    of the organisational units concerned and approval by executive deans of faculty/heads 
    of division. Approval will be based on the nature and benefits of the project 
    and funding availability. Following such period of secondment, staff must 
    produce a written report, as necessary, on findings or documentation of materials 
    produced. Copies are to be made available to interested staff through the 
    University library.
Special cases which fall outside the above categories may be approved by the 
  Human Resources Director.
A full-time position may be filled by secondment on either a full-time or part-time 
  basis, depending on the operational requirements of the organisational area 
  and the needs or preferences of the staff member/s wishing to be seconded.
Top 
12.6.3 Costs 
Salary costs for internally seconded staff are paid by the organisational unit 
  which obtains the most benefit from the secondment. It is expected that generally 
  the host unit would pay salary costs for secondments under Category A and that 
  the releasing unit would pay salary costs for secondments under Category B.
Staff considering secondment under Category B are encouraged to apply for research 
  grants.
Top 
12.6.4 Application Procedures 
Details of application procedures are available from Human Resources Department.
Top 
    Chapter A | Chapter B | Chapter C | Chapter D | Chapter E | Chapter F | Chapter G | Chapter H | Chapter I | Appendices | Protocol for MOPP Policy | Recent Updates
    QUT Home | MOPP Home
    CRICOS No. 00213J
    Privacy | Copyright | Accessibility
    Last modified 12-May-2010
    Contact us | Feedback | Disclaimer
