QUT | MOPP | B/12.8 Professional development program for professional staff
            QUT&nbsp;Home
          Contact&nbsp;us
          Search
      MOPP Home
      Protocol for MOPP Policy
      Recent Updates
      B/12.8 Professional development program for professional staff
Chapters
A - Governance/Organisation
B - Human Resources
C - Learning/Teaching
D - Research/Development
E - Student Administration
F - Information Management
G - Financial Management
H - Physical Facilities
I - International/Community
MOPP Appendices
MOPP Protocol
MOPP Updates
[Print-friendly version]
Contact OfficerSenior HR Officer (Client Services - Organisational Development) 
Approval Date23/07/2010 
Approval AuthorityVice-Chancellor 
Date of Next Review01/08/2013 
12.8.1 Policy principles 
12.8.2 Professional Development Program Committee (Professional Staff) 
12.8.3 Programs 
12.8.4 Eligibility 
12.8.5 Salary and employment conditions 
12.8.6 Financial assistance 
12.8.7 Application procedure 
Related Documents
Modification History 
12.8.1 Policy principles
QUT provides a range of opportunities for the development of its  professional staff through the Professional Development Program for  Professional Staff (PDP-PS). Such programs are expected to enhance the  vocational knowledge and skills of the staff member on a personal level, with  respect to their current and future employment at QUT. The broad objectives of  professional development programs are to enable staff periodically to work  outside the University in order to
  maintain       and improve professional and vocational knowledge 
  obtain       practical experience in the workplace in activities not available in the       University 
  where       appropriate, undertake specialised project work as approved by the       University 
  attend       conferences and make study visits (conference fees should normally be paid       by the organisational area; however, PDP-PS applications from staff       members at HEW6 and below may request PDP funds for this purpose in       special circumstances). 
PDP is a benefit that may be offered  to eligible staff when circumstances permit. As such it should not be regarded  by staff as an entitlement. Consideration of each application is based on
  available       resources 
  the       nature of the project proposed 
  the       staff member's capacity to benefit from the proposed project 
  the relative merit of the application with  respect to QUT's strategic objectives.
    Top 
12.8.2 Professional Development Program Committee (Professional Staff) 
The PDP-PS scheme is administered by the Professional Development  Program Committee (Professional Staff) (PDP Committee (PS)), a  Vice-Chancellor's committee established in accordance with Council  Procedure 1 - Committees, and is accountable to the  Vice-Chancellor for fulfilling the terms of reference outlined below. The  Committee operates at the University level to ensure that professional staff at  all levels and from all organisational areas have access to appropriate  development opportunities.
Terms of  Reference
  Professional Development Program Committee (Professional Staff)
  assesses       applications for professional development leave 
  makes       recommendations to the Registrar on applications for professional       development programs 
  makes       recommendations concerning policy changes to the Vice-Chancellor 
  nominates       priority areas or groups of staff for professional development programs 
  reviews       and approves reports on professional development programs. 
Membership
  Registrar ex officio as Chair 
  One       professional staff member elected by and from the professional staff of       each faculty and division 
  Equity       Director or nominee 
  Human       Resources Director or nominee 
A nominee of the Registrar is secretary.
Tenure and  frequency of meetings
  Terms of office are as detailed in section 3 of Council  Procedure 1&nbsp;- Committees .
  Members of the committee serve for a period of two years with one half  of the members retiring at the end of each year. Retiring members are eligible  for renomination.
  The committee meets at least three times a year and at such other times  as the Chair deems necessary.
Reporting
  PDP Committee (PS) reports to the Vice-Chancellor annually.
Top 
12.8.3 Programs
Duration 
  A PDP-PS will normally be for a minimum of five working days and shall  not normally exceed six months. In exceptional circumstances, up to 12 months  leave may be granted on the recommendation of the Professional Development  Program Committee (Professional Staff) and at the Registrar's discretion.
  In order to encourage staff at and below level HEW 6  to undertake appropriate PDPs, and to assist organisational areas to support  these applications, the normal minimum requirement of a five working day period  is waived. The application of this special provision for staff at and below HEW  6 is at the discretion of PDP Committee (PS).
Timing 
  Details relating to the timing of rounds for PDP-PS applications are  available on the Human  Resources website. 
Location of program
  A PDP-PS should normally be undertaken at a location other than QUT. The  appropriate location is one which will provide most benefit to both the staff  member and the University. Justification for the location of a PDP-PS should be  provided as part of the application. In the case of an overseas location the  application should indicate why the advantages to be gained by the University  cannot be gained at an Australian location.
Approval
Applications are approved by the Registrar following recommendation from  Professional Development Program Committee (Professional Staff).
PDP-PS for study programs
  Approval for staff to take full-time or part-time leave to progress or  complete an approved course of study will be determined at faculty or  divisional level (see B/12.3 ).
  Staff may apply for PDP assistance where a period of study leave forms  part of the total program (for example, a program which combines a period of  full-time study with visits/tours of, or research within, an external  organisation) and the staff member is seeking financial support through the  PDP-PS scheme.
  In these cases, staff must have completed at least  half of their academic program at the time of application, and approval for PDP  assistance is granted on the understanding that study progress will be  satisfactory prior to the commencement of leave.
Top 
12.8.4 Eligibility 
All members of professional staff (except casual staff) up to level  HEW10, and who have completed 12 months continuous service, are eligible to  apply for a PDP-PS. For the purposes of this policy, professional staff at  levels SSG1 and above are not defined as professional staff.
  A member of professional staff will not normally be granted PDP-PS leave  more frequently than every two years.
Top 
12.8.5 Salary and employment conditions 
A staff member's normal salary and conditions of employment accrue  during any period of paid PDP-PS. For absences of three months or more, normal  recreation leave accruals should be taken during the PDP-PS. If accrued leave  cannot be taken during the PDP, staff members must seek approval from the head  of school / department / section for the leave to be taken at a later date.
Leave without pay to undertake PDP-PS
  A professional staff member, who applies for and is granted  participation in a PDP-PS without pay, will continue to accrue normal leave  credits and service credits for salary progression purposes during the period  of leave. The University does not continue to pay superannuation payments during  periods of absence on leave without pay (see B/7.11 ).
Conditions of PDP-PS leave
  Participation in a PDP-PS is based upon the following terms and  conditions
  During       the period of PDP-PS leave, the staff member pursues the approved program.       All substantial program changes must have prior approval of the Registrar
  A       staff member shall give an undertaking to return to duty at the University       on the expiry of the approved period of absence for a subsequent period       equal to the length of the absence. If this undertaking is not fulfilled,       the Vice-Chancellor may require the staff member to refund a portion or       whole of the allowance provided during the program
  Within       one month of return from a PDP the staff member shall provide a documented       statement of all external income received during the PDP-PS
  Within       one month of return from a PDP-PS, the staff member shall provide the       Professional Development Program Committee (Professional Staff) with a       report on the work carried out and the benefits gained, particularly as       they relate to the needs of the University
  Within       one month of return from a PDP-PS, the staff member will make every effort       to share outcomes and information from the program with colleagues. The       staff member may also be requested to present the outcomes of their PDP-PS       to the Professional Development Program Committee (Professional Staff). 
Guidelines to assist staff members in preparing and submitting  professional development leave reports are published on the Human Resources website.
Top 
12.8.6 Financial Assistance 
The extent of financial assistance made available by the University  through the professional development program funds will be determined by PDP  Committee (PS) taking into account the merit of the program, the total  anticipated or actual costs to be incurred, and the extent of the financial  contribution from the staff members' organisational area. Information on the  level of assistance normally available can be found on the Human Resources  website.
  A staff member's PDP-PS leave shall be paid full salary, less any normal  deductions, for the duration of the program. In exceptional circumstances, a  lump sum of net salary for half of the period of the PDP-PS may be granted at  the discretion of the Registrar.
  In addition to the staff member's normal QUT salary, financial  assistance towards expenses will be made available from the University when the  PDP-PS is located away from home. If air travel is necessary, staff are  expected to use the most economical airfare which meets their needs, to use  QUT's approved travel service providers, and to comply with QUT&rsquo;s travel policy  (see G/5.5).
External income
  Staff members are encouraged to seek allowances, scholarships, grants,  salaries or other income from external sources to offset costs associated with an  approved PDP-PS.
  A staff member who receives an entitlement from an external source while  on PDP-PS leave is normally expected to use this entitlement towards travel,  accommodation and incidental expenses incurred, and/or to assist their  organisational area to back-fill their position if necessary. External income  in excess of the full cost of the program may be retained by the staff member.
If leave without pay is approved, the  staff member will be permitted to retain all remuneration received from  external sources. Depending on the circumstances, a return airfare and a  contribution towards other expenses may be provided by the University.
Top 
12.8.7 Application procedure 
Applicants must discuss their proposal with the head of school /  department / section prior to lodging an application. The head of school /  department / section should at that time offer an opinion as to the relevance  of the program and arrangements that might be made to cover the applicant's  commitments during the period of professional development leave.
All applications are to be submitted on the  approved PDP-PS application form and in accordance with the PDP-PS guidelines on  the Human Resources  website.
Top 
Related Documents 
MOPP B/12.4 Conference attendance for professional staff
MOPP G/5.5 Travel policy
Human Resources website 
Top 
Modification History 
Date
Sections
Source
Details
  10.08.10
   All
   Governance Services
   Policy renumbered and relocated to B/12.8 (formerly B/12.14)
  23.07.10
   All
   Vice-Chancellor
   Revised policy 
31.05.06
All
Vice-Chancellor
Revised policy (to exclude senior staff from PDP-PS scheme, to include Human Resources representative
        as member of PDP-PS Committee, and to reflect changes arising from amended delegations of authority)
29.06.04
B/12.14.1
Vice-Chancellor
Revised committee title, terms of reference and membership provisions, in accordance with
        recommendations of Vice-Chancellor's Panel of the 2003/2004 Committees Review
15.04.02
B/12.14.3
Vice-Chancellor
Revised Policy
Top 
    Chapter A | Chapter B | Chapter C | Chapter D | Chapter E | Chapter F | Chapter G | Chapter H | Chapter I | Appendices | Protocol for MOPP Policy | Recent Updates
    QUT Home | MOPP Home
    CRICOS No. 00213J
    Privacy | Copyright | Accessibility
    Last modified 13-Aug-2010
    Contact us | Feedback | Disclaimer
