QUT | MOPP | B/12.7 Professional Development Leave (PDL) for academic staff
            QUT&nbsp;Home
          Contact&nbsp;us
          Search
      MOPP Home
      Protocol for MOPP Policy
      Recent Updates
      B/12.7 Professional Development Leave (PDL) for academic staff
Chapters
A - Governance/Organisation
B - Human Resources
C - Learning/Teaching
D - Research/Development
E - Student Administration
F - Information Management
G - Financial Management
H - Physical Facilities
I - International/Community
MOPP Appendices
MOPP Protocol
MOPP Updates
[Print-friendly version]
Contact OfficerSenior HR Officer (Client Services - Academic Performance and Development) 
Approval Date24/10/2001 
Approval AuthorityVice-Chancellor 
Date of Next Review01/07/2005 
12.7.1 Policy principles 
12.7.2 PDL Committees 
12.7.3 PDL funding 
12.7.4 PDL-Long 
12.7.5 PDL-Short 
Related Documents 
Modification History 
    THIS POLICY IS CURRENTLY UNDER REVIEW -
    CONTACT Senior HUMAN RESOURCES Officer  FOR FURTHER DETAILS.    
12.7.1 Policy principles 
The Professional Development Leave (PDL) program provides support for academic 
  staff to undertake a coherent program of activities directed towards:
enhancing their knowledge, skills, professional experience and performance 
    within their academic discipline, and
assisting the University to meet its goals with respect to teaching, research, 
    community and professional service.
Through this program the University seeks to advance the professional and 
    academic standing of staff and the University as a whole. The program supports 
    staff who have demonstrated a record of achievement in their discipline, as 
    well as providing for the development of staff in the early stages of their 
    academic career.
PDL programs are normally carried out at a location other than the employee's 
  home or QUT.
PDL programs of 20 working days or less (PDL-Short) are approved by heads of 
  school or equivalent, with the executive dean of faculty determining final approval on 
  programs involving overseas travel. For more information on PDL-Short, staff 
  should consult the PDL-Short policy (see 
B/12.7.5 below). PDL-Short incorporates leave to attend conferences.
PDL programs of greater than 20 working days (PDL-Long) are approved by the 
  executive dean of faculty/head of division on the recommendation of the Faculty / Division 
  PDL committee. For more information on PDL-Long, staff should consult the PDL-Long 
  policy (see B/12.7.4 below).
Top 
12.7.2 PDL Committees 
Each Faculty / Division employing academic staff will have a committee designated 
  to advise the executive dean of faculty / head of division on matters relating to PDL.
Terms of Reference
The Faculty / Division PDL Committee will provide advice to the executive dean of faculty 
  / head of division on the implementation of PDL policy within the Faculty / 
  Division. Specific duties for the Faculty / Division PDL Committee are outlined 
  below in sections 
B/12.7.3
B/12.7.4
and 
B/12.7.5
The executive dean of faculty/head of division will report annually to the Deputy Vice-Chancellor, 
  based on advice from the PDL Committee, on the nature of the PDL programs undertaken 
  within the faculty / division. The report will also cover funding levels for 
  PDL-Long and PDL-Short, and the manner in which these funds were allocated, 
  distributed and expended within the faculty / division.
Membership
PDL committees will include at least two elected academic staff representatives 
  with full voting rights, and a secretary appointed by the executive dean of faculty / 
  head of division. When establishing a PDL committee, faculty / division staff 
  should have regard to gender balance and other equity issues (see Council Procedure 1 - Committees).
Tenure and Frequency of Meeting
Elected PDL committee members will hold office for up to two years, with half 
  the members standing down at the end of each year. Members are eligible for 
  re-election.
PDL committees will meet at least bi-annually.
Top 
12.7.3 PDL funding 
Recognition and reward of the accomplishments of staff is essential to the motivation, attraction
  and retention of quality staff. The University is committed to recognising and rewarding such accomplishments
  which further the University's vision. 
In line with this commitment, QUT provides academic staff with access to a promotion scheme which focuses
on demonstrated accomplishment across the areas of teaching, research and scholarship, and service. These
areas cover the diversity of academic activities and recognise disciplinary differences.
Staff are guided and assisted in career development and opportunities for
    promotion through the University's Performance Planning and Review process
  (see 
B/9.2).
For the purpose of this policy:
"Research staff" means research staff appointed at Levels A - D.
"Head of School" means the head of a school or other unit with which the staff
    member is associated, and includes anyone acting in that role on a temporary basis.
"Executive Dean of Faculty" means the executive dean of a faculty or equivalent
"Faculty" means faculty or equivalent
"Promotion Committee" refers to Faculty Promotion Committee or University Promotion
    Committee as relevant.
Top 
12.7.4 PDL-Long 
Eligibility
The PDL-Long program provides support for ongoing and fixed term academic staff 
  (including research-only academic staff) employed by QUT on a full-time or part-time 
  (not sessional) basis.
Staff applying for PDL-Long will normally have completed two years of continuous 
  service at QUT, and have demonstrated a sustained record of productivity as 
  recorded through the PPR-AS process (see 
B/9.2). 
  In exceptional circumstances staff may apply to the executive dean of faculty / head of 
  division to be considered for PDL-Long prior to completing two years of continuous 
  service.
Eligibility for PDL-Long may be withdrawn if the applicant's employment status 
  changes (for example, the applicant gives notice of resignation or retirement). 
  The Faculty / Division PDL Committee will determine the continuing eligibility 
  of applicants.
Programs Supported
PDL-Long provides a consolidated period of time in which academic staff can 
  engage in one or more activities relevant to their academic work. As such, PDL-Long 
  is not normally approved for activities that can be undertaken while continuing 
  normal academic duties.
PDL-Long may consist of, but will not be limited to:
Undertaking research in libraries, universities and research institutions;
Undertaking professional experience in the workplace;
Visiting industrial, professional or governmental agencies and establishments;
Teaching in an educational institution, or developing teaching or curriculum 
    materials;
Exchanges and secondments to other universities or industrial, professional 
    or governmental agencies and establishments. Note that exchanges and secondments 
    involve procedures additional to those contained in this policy. Staff should 
    examine the procedures relating to secondments and exchanges available from 
Human 
    Resources Department
Undertaking studies for the completion of a higher degree.
The Faculty / Division PDL Committee will determine whether or not the proposed 
  program of activities meets the requirements of the PDL policy.
Process for Considering Applications
The process for considering PDL-Long applications will be determined by the 
  executive dean of faculty / head of division on the recommendation of the relevant PDL 
  committee. The process will be communicated to staff within the faculty / division 
  in a timely manner. The process should be consistent with the following elements:
Academic staff will provide their head of school or equivalent with advance 
    notice of their PDL-Long application, and discuss the proposed program with 
    their head of school or equivalent. This is expected to occur as part of the 
    planning cycle of the PPR-AS process.
Applications will be lodged by a due date set by the PDL committee. Applications 
    involving an absence greater than two months should reach the committee at 
    least six months before the commencement of the proposed program. After submission, 
    the committee may seek further information from the applicant if required.
The head of school or equivalent will provide a statement on the program 
    framed against the criteria below. This statement should indicate whether 
    the application is supported by the head of school or equivalent. The statement 
    should detail how the academic staff member's normal teaching and other duties 
    will be covered during the period of absence.
Final approval for a PDL program will be granted by the executive dean of faculty/head 
    of division, after all relevant supporting documentation has been received. 
    Such documentation may include letters of support from host institutions, 
    finalisation of salary details from host organisations, etc.
Criteria for Assessing PDL-Long Applications
The proposed duration and location of the program will be considered by the 
  PDL committee in terms of the objectives of the program. In addition, PDL-Long 
  applications will be assessed by the committee in relation to the following 
  criteria:
The extent to which the PDL-Long program expands staff members' knowledge, 
    skills, experience and performance within their academic discipline;
The extent to which the PDL-Long program delivers tangible outcomes related 
    to faculty / division goals in one or more of teaching, research, and service;
The extent to which the activities are consistent with the overall objectives 
    of the program;
The feasibility of the objectives;
The proposed dissemination strategies.
Support for PDL-Long
Support for PDL-Long will be determined by the PDL Committee based on the nature 
  and merit of the program, and on available funds. Support may consist of:
Leave from normal academic duties at QUT for the duration of the program;
The staff member's salary;
A single return airfare appropriate to the program;
A travel away from home allowance.
Where airfares are funded the applicant will receive the most economical return 
  airfare to the principal destination, or an around-the-world economy airfare, 
  whichever is cheaper. Staff are expected to use QUT's approved travel agent, 
  and to comply with QUT's travel policies and requirements (see 
G/5.5).
Applicants may request additional funds to cover ground transport to locations 
  outside the principal destination area, (for example, intercity transport). 
  Applications for ground travel support need to demonstrate that such funding 
  is necessary for the achievement of the program's objectives. Staff are expected 
  to use the most cost effective form of ground travel.
The travel away from home allowance is designed to assist with the additional 
  costs associated with living and travelling away from one's normal place of 
  residence. The travel away from home allowance is reviewed annually by the Human 
  Resources Director (see 
Human 
  Resources
web page - under travel allowances).
Where an applicant is attending a conference as part of their PDL-Long program 
  the applicant may request funding to cover conference registration fees.
Outside Earnings
Given the costs associated with working and living away from home, especially 
  overseas, staff members are encouraged to seek funding over and above the support 
  provided to them by QUT. This may include scholarships or grants, salaries or 
  other forms of income from sources external to QUT.
In some cases the activities conducted by a staff member on PDL-Long may provide 
  a commercial or financial benefit to an external organisation. In these cases 
  the staff member may wish to seek some funding for their program from the external 
  organisation.
In relation to salaries or income from external organisations employing the 
  staff member, the following provisions apply:
Staff members living away from their normal place of residence will retain 
    net external income (ie external income less PDL related expenses) up to a 
    maximum of 50% of their gross QUT salary for the period of the PDL-Long program. 
    Where dependents accompany the staff member on PDL-Long this amount will be 
    increased by 5% per dependent. When two QUT staff members with common dependents 
    are going on PDL-Long, dependents can only be counted once. Net external income 
    earned in excess of these amounts is to be paid to the relevant cost centre 
    within QUT.
For staff members living at their normal place of residence, their gross 
    QUT salary is reduced by the total amount of their net external income, less 
    an allowance for PDL related expenses. Alternatively, the staff member may 
    retain his or her full QUT salary, and the external income is to be transferred 
    to the relevant cost centre within QUT, less an allowance for PDL related 
    expenses.
Staff members may choose to forego their QUT salary for the period of their 
    PDL-Long program. In this case, the staff member will retain all remuneration 
    received from external sources.
In the points above, PDL related expenses refer to costs not normally incurred 
  while employed at QUT, and are determined by the executive dean of faculty / head of division 
  in each case on the recommendation of the relevant PDL Committee.
Salary and Leave Accruals
Subject to the above section on outside earnings, a staff member's normal salary 
  and conditions of employment accrue during any period of paid PDL-Long. For 
  absences of three months or more, normal recreation leave credits accrue, and 
  should be taken in the course of the PDL-Long program. If this is not possible, 
  staff members must seek approval from their head of school or equivalent for 
  the leave to be taken at a later date.
Staff members may choose to forego their QUT salary for the period of their 
  PDL-Long program. In this case the staff member will continue to accrue normal 
  leave credits, including long service leave, recreation leave, sick leave, and 
  service credits for salary progression during the period of leave.
The university does not continue to pay superannuation payments during periods 
  of PDL-Long without pay.
Service on Return
The staff member is expected to continue in service at QUT after completing 
  the PDL-Long leave. The period of service on return will be equivalent to the 
  period of absence. If this undertaking is not fulfilled, the executive dean of faculty 
  / head of division may recommend to the Deputy Vice-Chancellor that the staff 
  member be required to refund some or all of the allowances provided.
Report on PDL-Long
Following completion of PDL-Long, staff are required to report to the relevant 
  PDL-Long committee through their Head of School or equivalent on the outcomes 
  of the program. The report is used to assess the extent to which the objectives 
  of the program have been met, and will be referred to when considering subsequent 
  applications for PDL-Long by the staff member.
The report also will describe how the outcomes of the program have been or 
  will be disseminated within the faculty / division. PDL-Long reports, once approved 
  by the committee, will be accessible by other staff members within the faculty 
  / division.
PDL report guidelines are available from the 
Human 
  Resources Department
web site.
Variations to Approved Programs
Staff members are expected to pursue the approved program. Except for certified 
  illness or compassionate grounds, any substantial alterations to the duration, 
  location, purpose or timing of the program must be approved by the executive dean of faculty 
  / head of division.
Unauthorised variations to a PDL-Long, or failure to complete a PDL-Long, may 
  result in the Deputy Vice-Chancellor on the recommendation of the executive dean of faculty 
  / head of division, in consultation with the PDL committee, requiring the staff 
  member to refund some or all of the support provided for the program.
Appeals
A staff member may appeal a PDL committee's recommendation to reject their 
  program. Appeals can be made only on the grounds of process. Appeals must be 
  lodged with the Human Resources Director within two weeks of formal advice to 
  the staff member that the application has been rejected. The appeal will be 
  considered by a panel comprising:
Deputy Vice-Chancellor;
Two elected academic staff members from a faculty / division committee 
    (other than that of the appellant) designated to assess PDL-Long applications.
This panel will review the process followed by the PDL committee in evaluating 
  the appellant's PDL-Long application. Should the panel conclude that there has 
  been no breach in process, the panel will advise the appellant accordingly. 
  There will be no further right of appeal.
Where the panel concludes that there has been a breach in process, all relevant 
  documentation will be referred to the executive dean of faculty / head of division and 
  the relevant PDL-Long committee, and the application will be reconsidered.
Top 
12.7.5 PDL-Short 
Eligibility
The PDL-Short program applies to ongoing and fixed term academic staff, including 
  research only academic staff, employed by QUT on a full time or part time (not 
  sessional) basis.
Programs Supported
PDL-Short leave may consist of, but will not be limited to:
Conferences;
Undertaking research in libraries, universities and research institutions;
Undertaking professional experience in the workplace;
Visiting industrial, professional or governmental agencies and establishments;
Establishing or renewing contacts with professional colleagues working in 
    related fields;
Teaching in an educational institution, or developing teaching or curriculum 
    materials;
The head of school or equivalent will determine whether or not the proposed 
  program of activities constituting a PDL-Short program are appropriate.
Process for Considering Applications
The process for considering PDL-Short applications will be determined by the 
  head of school or equivalent in consultation with the staff of the school or 
  equivalent. The process will be communicated to staff in a timely manner.
Applications for PDL-Short will be submitted to the head of school or equivalent. 
  The head of school or equivalent may seek advice on the application's merit 
  from staff members within the school or equivalent. The head of school or equivalent 
  will then determine the extent to which the application is to be supported. 
  Where the application involves overseas travel final approval will be granted 
  by the executive dean of faculty / head of division.
Applicants should endeavour to time PDL-Short programs so as to disrupt their 
  teaching duties as little as possible. Where possible, applications for PDL-Short 
  should be discussed with the head of school or equivalent as part of the planning 
  cycle of the PPR-AS process.
Appeals
Appeals can be made only on the grounds of process. Academic staff will have 
  access to the dispute resolution procedures (see 
B/10.1) 
  in making appeals with respect to PDL-Short decisions.
Reporting
The head of school or equivalent will report annually to the executive dean of faculty 
  / head of division through the relevant Faculty / Division PDL Committee on 
  the manner in which PDL-Short funds were expended.
Top 
Related Documents 
MOPP D/7.1 Outside work - academic staff
MOPP B/9.2 Performance planning and review for academic staff
MOPP B/6.1 Staff leave
MOPP B/7.2 General employment conditions
 MOPP G/5.5 Travel policy
Travel away from home allowance ( 
  http://www.hrd.qut.edu.au/staff/salary/)
Top 
Modification History 
Date
Sections
Source
Details
  15.12.07
  B/12.7.3
  Vice-Chancellor
  Removed  reference to QUT Carseldine and Executive Director, Northern Campuses (position disestablished  from 31.12.07)
03.01.02
B/12.7.4
Human Resources Department
Added link to PDL Report Guidelines on Human Resources web site
24.10.01
All
Council
Revised policy (replaces policies on Professional Development Programs, 
      Professional Experience Programs, Secondments, Exchanges and Higher Degree 
      Study Leave for academic staff)
Top 
    Chapter A | Chapter B | Chapter C | Chapter D | Chapter E | Chapter F | Chapter G | Chapter H | Chapter I | Appendices | Protocol for MOPP Policy | Recent Updates
    QUT Home | MOPP Home
    CRICOS No. 00213J
    Privacy | Copyright | Accessibility
    Last modified 12-May-2010
    Contact us | Feedback | Disclaimer
