QUT | MOPP | C/1.3 Learning and teaching development grants and awards
            QUT&nbsp;Home
          Contact&nbsp;us
          Search
      MOPP Home
      Protocol for MOPP Policy
      Recent Updates
      C/1.3 Learning and teaching development grants and awards
Chapters
A - Governance/Organisation
B - Human Resources
C - Learning/Teaching
D - Research/Development
E - Student Administration
F - Information Management
G - Financial Management
H - Physical Facilities
I - International/Community
MOPP Appendices
MOPP Protocol
MOPP Updates
[Print-friendly version]
Contact OfficerDirector, Learning and Development, Learning and Teaching Unit 
Approval Date23/07/2010 
Approval AuthorityUniversity Academic Board 
Date of Next Review01/08/2013 
1.3.1 Policy 
1.3.2 Learning and Teaching Commissioned Projects  Scheme 
1.3.3 Faculty Learning and Teaching Grant Scheme
1.3.4 Engagement with the Australian Learning and Teaching Council
1.3.5 Roles and responsibilities relating to ALTC programs
1.3.6 Allocation and expenditure of ALTC award monies
Related Documents
Modification History 
1.3.1 Policy 
QUT has established Learning and Teaching  Development Grants as an important strategy in driving and sustaining  institutional change aimed at building better learning environments for  students and a culture that values the scholarship of teaching. These grants  fall under the auspices of University Teaching and Learning Committee and align  to QUT's strategic priority areas through the Learning and Teaching Plan.
  Grants are allocated under the following schemes
  Learning and Teaching Commissioned Projects Scheme 
  Faculty Learning and Teaching Grant Scheme. 
Building on its  internal grants strategy, QUT promotes positive action to engage with  Australian Learning and Teaching Council's (ALTC) awards, grants and fellowships  programs.
Top 
1.3.2 Learning and Teaching Commissioned Projects  Scheme 
The Learning and Teaching Commissioned Projects  Scheme provides funding for large-scale projects addressing a small number of  identified priority areas. The focus is on improving learning and teaching  practices right across the University. Project teams are established for each  priority area, and projects are administered using the QUT Project Management  Framework. Guidelines for the Learning and Teaching Commissioned Projects  Scheme are available on the Learning and Teaching Unit website.
(a)   Learning and Teaching Initiatives Steering Group
The Learning and Teaching Initiatives Steering Group, provides  strategic advice and guidance to the Deputy Vice-Chancellor (Learning and Teaching)  on all learning and teaching projects and initiatives managed by the Learning and Teaching Unit. These include the  Learning and Teaching Commissioned Projects Scheme and the Faculty Learning and  Teaching Grants Scheme.
(b) University Teaching and Learning  Committee
  University Teaching and Learning Committee  considers strategic and policy issues relating to both the Learning and  Teaching Commissioned Project Scheme and the Faculty Learning and Teaching  Grants Scheme recommended by the Learning and Teaching  Initiatives Steering Group. 
Top 
1.3.3 Faculty Learning and Teaching Grant Scheme 
The Faculty Learning and Teaching Grant Scheme  provides funding to faculties to build the capacity of academic staff, promote  strategic change, and disseminate good practice in learning and teaching, with  the aim of embedding and sustaining improved student learning outcomes.
  An annual allocation for the Faculty Learning and  Teaching Grant Scheme is distributed to faculties based on teaching load  (EFTSL) and is contingent upon faculties making a contribution to the scheme  equivalent to that received. Faculties are responsible for determining grant  priorities and criteria and for administering the scheme at the faculty level.
Guidelines for the Faculty Learning and Teaching  Grant Scheme, including reporting requirements, are available on the Learning and Teaching Unit website.
Top 
1.3.4 Engagement with the Australian Learning and Teaching Council
QUT supports strong engagement with the Australian  Learning and Teaching Council (ALTC) awards, grants and fellowships programs. This engagement is underpinned by
  the  guidelines and requirements stipulated by the ALTC which is governed by a Board appointed by the Federal Education Minister
  QUT's ALTC Strategic Engagement Plan which provides  strategies and objectives which are expected to flow through to faculty,  institute and divisional strategic plans
  measurement  of key performance indicators in relation to performance in the ALTC Programs.
  Top 
1.3.5 Roles and responsibilities relating to ALTC programs
Vice-Chancellor
The  Vice-Chancellor approves and signs ALTC Award and Fellowship nominations.
Deputy Vice-Chancellor (Learning and Teaching)
  The Deputy Vice-Chancellor  (Learning and Teaching)
  chairs the QUT selection panels for ALTC awards  and fellowships
  endorses ALTC award and fellowship nominations  for Vice-Chancellor approval 
  approves ALTC grant applications and other ALTC  funded initiatives
  certifies reports on QUT's ALTC grant projects
  signs ALTC agreements including multi-institutional  agreements for grant projects and contracts.
Awards and Grants Service, Learning and Teaching Unit
  The Awards and  Grants Service
  provides  the primary point of contact for authoritative advice and guidance on ALTC-related  matters 
  implements the policy, procedures and processes  for managing QUT's engagement with the ALTC 
  develops and implements a range of development  activities designed to enhance the competitiveness and professionalism of staff  engaged in ALTC-related activity.
University  Teaching and Learning Committee 
University Teaching and Learning  Committee maintains oversight and makes recommendations relating to enhancing  QUT's interface with the ALTC.
Faculties  and divisions
  Faculties and  divisions
  identify and select staff to submit expressions  of interest for nomination for ALTC awards and fellowships 
  review and endorse expressions of interest, ALTC nominations, and grant  applications
  support pathways for staff to ALTC opportunities  through local level grants and awards.
Assistant  deans (teaching and learning)
  The assistant deans (teaching and learning)
  provide  the primary point of contact for expressions of interest for nomination for ALTC  awards and fellowships and grant applications
  oversee  the faculty-level identification, support and review processes for staff  engaging with ALTC awards, grants and fellowships
  coordinate  the faculty-level endorsement process for ALTC nominations and applications. 
Details  of the selection process for ALTC award and fellowship nominations and the  terms of reference for the selection panels can be found on the Awards and Grants website. The website also provides an overview of the QUT process for applying  for an ALTC grant as a lead or partner institution.
QUT staff engaged in ALTC  grant projects or fellowships must comply with the National Statement on Ethical Conduct in Human Research D/1.1.2.
Top 
1.3.6  Allocation and expenditure of ALTC Award monies
ALTC award monies are awarded as a prize  which may be used to
  advance the       career/s of the recipient/s 
  provide       additional resources to support the recipient/s teaching or activities       related to the award
  assist       the individual/team to disseminate good practice in learning and teaching.
Expenditure of award monies should conform  with
  relevant  school/department and faculty/division protocols relating to University  expenditure and, where appropriate, be negotiated in consultation with the  recipient's supervisor
  the University's  policy on appropriate expenditure of University funds (G/5.1)  and the Financial Management Practice and Procedures Manual.
Acceptable expenditure includes equipment  purchase, conference attendance, support for teaching and learning related  research/projects, or professional development. Award monies should not be used  to provide teaching relief to allow the recipient to engage in research that is  unrelated to learning and teaching. Any equipment purchased with Australian  Learning and Teaching Council Award monies remains the property of the  University, subject to University policy. 
  In the case of a program award with a number  of institutions as partners QUT is required to enter into an understanding with  the partner institutions regarding the sharing of the award money.
  Top 
Related Documents
MOPP Appendix 3  - Schedule of Authorities and Delegations
  MOPP G/5.1 Expenditure of  University funds
  MOPP G/6.1 Policy on  management of contracts and MOUs
  Financial  Management Practices and Procedures Manual 
  Australian Learning and Teaching Council  website 
  Awards and Grants Service  website
Office of Research website
Modification History 
Date
Sections
Source
Details
  11.02.11
  All
  Governance Services
  Revised terms of reference due to position title change from Deputy Vice-Chancellor (Teaching Quality) to Deputy Vice-Chancellor (Learning and Teaching)
  11.02.11
  All
  Governance Services
  Revised terms of reference due to name change from Office of Teaching Quality to Learning and Teaching Unit
   23.07.10
   All
   University Academic Board
  Periodic review - Policy revised to include details of QUT's engagement with ALTC
   14.11.08
   All
   University Academic Board
  Revised and renumbered policy to C/1.3 (formerly  C/2.1 Teaching and learning development grants) (endorsed by University  Teaching and Learning Committee 21.10.08)
19.05.06
All
University Academic Board
Revised policy (endorsed by Teaching and Learning Committee 07.03.06)
16.11.04
All
Secretariat
Editorial (renumbered - formerly C/2.2)
02.02.99
All
Policy Adviser (Teaching and Learning)
Revised
Top 
    Chapter A | Chapter B | Chapter C | Chapter D | Chapter E | Chapter F | Chapter G | Chapter H | Chapter I | Appendices | Protocol for MOPP Policy | Recent Updates
    QUT Home | MOPP Home
    CRICOS No. 00213J
    Privacy | Copyright | Accessibility
    Last modified 10-Feb-2011
    Contact us | Feedback | Disclaimer
