QUT | MOPP | C/4.2 Curriculum design
            QUT&nbsp;Home
          Contact&nbsp;us
          Search
      MOPP Home
      Protocol for MOPP Policy
      Recent Updates
      C/4.2 Curriculum design
Chapters
A - Governance/Organisation
B - Human Resources
C - Learning/Teaching
D - Research/Development
E - Student Administration
F - Information Management
G - Financial Management
H - Physical Facilities
I - International/Community
MOPP Appendices
MOPP Protocol
MOPP Updates
[Print-friendly version]
Contact OfficerDeputy Vice-Chancellor (Learning and Teaching) 
Approval Date27/03/2009 
Approval AuthorityUniversity Academic Board 
Date of Next Review01/04/2012 
4.2.1 Policy principles 
    4.2.2 Policy outcomes 
    4.2.3 Definition of relevant terms 
    4.2.4 Characteristics of curriculum design 
    4.2.5 Approval of curriculum 
    4.2.6 Monitoring and evaluation
    Related Documents
    Modification History 
4.2.1  Policy  principles
Curriculum design at QUT supports the University&rsquo;s overall vision of  providing real world learning environments and programs through the following  principles
  the curriculum is designed to support student  learning through blended learning approaches
  the curriculum embeds real world learning  pedagogies
  the curriculum reflects a whole of course design.
Top
4.2.2 Policy  outcomes
This policy is designed to
  articulate a set of principles that underpin curriculum design at QUT
  provide a framework to guide the holistic design of courses and their  components.
Top
4.2.3 Definition  of relevant terms
(a) Curriculum: A Learning Environment
The term &lsquo;curriculum&rsquo; captures far more than a list of content to be  mastered, or a list of units in sequence.
  It is  a learning environment: a planned arrangement of space, time, resources, people  and ideas (adapted from a definition by Gail Halliwell, 1990). It is designed to  assist students to achieve particular desired learning outcomes of a  course.; Students and teachers both  contribute to the human dimension of the learning environment, but the  teacher&rsquo;s role as a learning leader is particularly important. 
(b) Curriculum design
Curriculum design  is the architecture of a course of study that embodies a philosophy of learning  and teaching, articulates a clear set of desired learning outcomes and  describes how the planned learning environment will support the student to  achieve those learning outcomes. Courses  are organised as an arrangement of units, which may incorporate required,  sequenced and optional elements.
(c) Blended  learning
Blended  learning is the designed integration of face-to-face, distance, and electronic approaches to enhance student learning. The particular blend of physical  and virtual learning environments in a course or unit is chosen to provide  optimal support for the desired learning activities and learning outcomes.
(d) Learning activities
Learning activities are the tasks that  students undertake in order to gain mastery of the content, skills and  dispositions that are desired as learning outcomes of the course. 
(e) Learning experiences
Learning  experiences are constructed by individual students through their personal  engagement with the learning activities, opportunities and resources provided,  and are greatly impacted by life experience.
(f) Real world learning and teaching
Real world learning enables students to experience and understand the  relevance of their learning to their work and lives, and supports the creation  of their identity as a professional practitioner. Curriculum to support real world learning  includes elements such as work placements, simulations of professional work,  and teaching by practising professionals. Assessment tasks that encourage  students to examine real world issues and practices through application of  their emerging theoretical knowledge are highly valued. Learning that is contextualised to the real  world practice of the professions is supported from the commencement of first  year study through to the graduate&rsquo;s transition into the profession.
Top
4.2.4 Characteristics  of curriculum design
Curriculum design  at QUT has three key characteristics: it  is focused on the support of student learning, it embeds real world learning  pedagogies, and reflects a whole of course design.
(a) Curriculum design  supports student learning
QUT courses are  designed to support students in achieving the learning outcomes desired from  the course , and to achieve the graduate capabilities that should characterise  every QUT alumnus (see C/4.3).  Throughout the course there will be multiple opportunities for students  to master the relevant content, practise the skills and develop the  dispositions desired of graduates in that field. There also will be multiple opportunities to  track the student&rsquo;s learning progress, as mastery of the learning outcomes is  assessed. To optimise student  development, curriculum design incorporates consideration of diverse student  needs and student engagement with the learning environment.
  Learning outcomes:  The curriculum design is centred on course  learning outcomes which clearly articulate what graduates of the course need to  know (knowledge), need to be able to do (skills), and how they position  themselves in relation to others (dispositions) in order to fulfil the  responsibilities of the profession or master the discipline. Learning outcomes  incorporate QUT&rsquo;s graduate capabilities (see C/4.3) though the ways in which  the graduate capability and its assessment are embedded are specific to each  course.
  The arrangement of units that constitutes  the course architecture is mapped against the desired learning outcomes to help  ensure the course is coherent and comprehensive.  This mapping ensures that  learning activities and assessment tasks throughout  the course are designed to assess student progress towards achievement of the  learning outcomes, so that at the conclusion of the course the University can  be confident that the graduate has acquired all stated learning outcomes at an  acceptable level.  
  Diverse  students: Curriculum design supports a culturally diverse study environment (see  A\8.7) through the following: 
    The  curriculum design anticipates and values a diverse student body.  In the interests of social inclusion and  increasing access to the benefits that flow from a successful university  education, Indigenous students and students from other cultures and social  groups are welcomed.       
    Curriculum  design recognises that students are diverse in terms of their previous  educational experience and the extent to which life experiences have prepared  them for university level study.   Diversity in academic literacy, numeracy skills and English language  proficiency require the University to provide a wide range of learning support  programs &ndash; both free-standing and embedded within the curriculum.
    Curriculum  design responds to student diversity in terms of how current life circumstances  impact on their learning needs by providing flexible learning options that  might include blended learning environments, a range of contact periods, summer  schools, distance-learning and part-time enrolment.
    Curriculum  design acknowledges the existence of multiple legitimate knowledge frameworks  in the global population and strives to incorporate Indigenous perspectives,  and develop intercultural understanding.
  Student engagement:  To  support high quality learning, the curriculum incorporates a blended learning pedagogy  which utilises a range of strategies including virtual learning environments  and other technological innovations, in addition to different types of  face-to-face interactions, to ensure that all students are able to engage  deeply with the ideas in the course.   Active learning, collaborative learning and problem-based learning  approaches are valued as ways to encourage students&rsquo; meaningful engagement.  Learning opportunities that encourage students to develop and practise research  skills in meaningful and systematic investigations also are valued as the  embodiment of the research-teaching nexus. 
 (b) Curriculum  design embeds real world learning pedagogies
QUT values real world learning that explicitly  reveals for students the practices, culture and practical knowledge of the  disciplines and the professions they aspire to enter.   Curriculum design embeds QUT&rsquo;s distinctive brand of  engagement and real world learning at every stage of the course through the  following features:  
  Engagement with professions:  Course content reflects evolving disciplinary  knowledge and the practical knowledge of professionals, and is informed by  engagement with the professions and community.   External validation of  academic standards associated with the discipline or profession is provided  through accreditation by relevant professional bodies.
  Engagement  with research:  Course content is informed by  engagement with research activity.   Learning activities promote higher-order thinking skills and develop  students&rsquo; abilities to be self-directed learners.  To develop research proficiency, students are  encouraged to undertake systematic investigations and to utilise evidence-based  decision making.  Integration of  theoretical knowledge with practical applications of that knowledge are highly  valued. 
  Real  world learning activities:  Learning  activities within the curriculum simulate as closely as practicable  professional or workplace practice, whether on or off-campus, and provide  students with valid models for their emerging professional identities.  A scaffolded, incremental approach to real  world learning supports student transitions, and work integrated learning  provides opportunities for every learner to engage in real world contexts. Learning  activities in the final phase of a course enable students to make a successful  transition into professional environments and support their professional  identity. 
(c) Whole of course  design 
Curriculum  design is scaffolded to identify and support the developmental levels of  learning inherent within a course.  To  achieve this whole of course design, the curriculum acknowledges the needs of  each level of learning and engages students with challenges appropriate to that  level, while also building on the previous level and preparing students for the  following level.  
  In first year, the  curriculum is designed to support students&rsquo; transition to university from their  previous educational experience.  This transition involves academic,  administrative and social elements.  Explicit attention is paid to  designing a curriculum that is accessible by and inclusive of all  students.  The first year curriculum is learning-centred and provides a  solid foundation and scaffolding on which learners can build their knowledge  and skills.  The curriculum design, including the pedagogical approach,  encourages deep engagement by the learners and helps them understand how their  learning will be assessed and what they will need to do in order to be  successful in first year.  The assessment provides opportunities for early  feedback to students about their learning progress, and helps inform teaching  staff about what types of learning support might be needed by individual  students. 
  The  middle level of a whole of course curriculum introduces increasing  opportunities for specialist study and builds on the knowledge foundations laid  down in the first year.   Real world  learning is further supported through activities that simulate professional  work, and provide further opportunities for work integrated learning through  engagement with industry and community.   Academic and information literacy skills continue to be developed, and  students will begin to acquire the skills of systematic investigation and  critical thinking that will be needed for more advanced levels of study.  Students are encouraged to participate in a  range of co-curricular learning opportunities that include mentoring programs,  service learning and outbound mobility programs.
  The final  level of the curriculum intentionally and visibly addresses the transition to  professional life and postgraduate study.   Capstone units/experiences support students in this transition through reflection  on the whole of course experience, and aim to purposefully integrate and  synthesise knowledge and skills developed throughout the course.  The final year provides a coherent linkage  between the students&rsquo; experiences in the course and their forthcoming emergence  into a professional world.  Included in the final year are opportunities  to integrate and practice their skills in real world settings, and to  demonstrate that they have achieved the learning outcomes desired of the  course.   Career decision making and  preparation for employment are important components of the final year  experience.   
Top
4.2.5 Approval  of curriculum 
The curriculum for a course is approved by the  relevant approval authority through the academic plan (see C/4.1). Students are presented with the relevant  elements of the curriculum design through unit and course outlines (see  C/4.5).  QUT uses a number of tools to  guide staff in the development of curriculum and for use in the approval process  (see C/4.1).
Top
4.2.6 Evaluation  and monitoring
Curriculum design  and renewal is a cycle that continues throughout the life of a course. There  needs to be a continual flow of evidence on the appropriateness and  effectiveness of the curriculum, both from the perspective of individual students  and for the course as a whole. There should be well-established protocols for  using this data to inform changes that are designed to improve student learning  (see C/4.7). QUT uses the following  strategies to monitor and evaluate its curriculum:
  the course quality assurance system (see C/4.6);
  student evaluation of units (see C/4.5 and C/4.7);
  standardised monitoring and intervention processes  for student engagement in the first year;
  use of assessment items early in the course or  semester to provide evidence of student progress and engagement (see C/5.1).
Top
Related Documents
MOPP C/4.1 Curriculum development and approval
MOPP C/4.3 Graduate capabilities
MOPP C/4.4 Work integrated learning
MOPP C/4.5 Units
MOPP C/4.6 Course quality assurance
MOPP C/4.7 Evaluation of courses, units, teaching and student experience
MOPP C/5.1 Assessment
MOPP C/6.1 Physical and virtual learning environments
MOPP C/6.2 The First Year Experience
MOPP C/6.3 Flexible delivery
Protocols for First Year Experience
Top
Modification History
      Date
      Sections
      Source
      Details
    11.02.11
    All
    Governance Services
    Revised terms of reference due to position title change from Deputy Vice-Chancellor (Teaching Quality) to Deputy Vice-Chancellor (Learning and Teaching)
     23.07.10
     All
     University Academic Board
    Revised policy in accordance with new Blended learning policy (C/6.3)
     27.03.09
     All
     University Academic Board
    New policy (endorsed by  University Teaching and Learning Committee 03.03.09)
Top
    Chapter A | Chapter B | Chapter C | Chapter D | Chapter E | Chapter F | Chapter G | Chapter H | Chapter I | Appendices | Protocol for MOPP Policy | Recent Updates
    QUT Home | MOPP Home
    CRICOS No. 00213J
    Privacy | Copyright | Accessibility
    Last modified 10-Feb-2011
    Contact us | Feedback | Disclaimer
