QUT | MOPP | C/4.6 Course quality assurance
            QUT&nbsp;Home
          Contact&nbsp;us
          Search
      MOPP Home
      Protocol for MOPP Policy
      Recent Updates
      C/4.6 Course quality assurance
Chapters
A - Governance/Organisation
B - Human Resources
C - Learning/Teaching
D - Research/Development
E - Student Administration
F - Information Management
G - Financial Management
H - Physical Facilities
I - International/Community
MOPP Appendices
MOPP Protocol
MOPP Updates
[Print-friendly version]
Contact OfficerDean of Studies, Learning and Teaching Unit 
Approval Date14/11/2008 
Approval AuthorityUniversity Academic Board 
Date of Next Review01/01/2012 
4.6.1 Policy principles 
4.6.2 Policy outcomes 
4.6.3 Course quality  assurance process 
4.6.4 Mid-year performance  meetings with faculties and schools
4.6.5 Role of corporate  reviews 
4.6.6 External review and  accreditation
4.6.7 Roles and  responsibilities
Related Documents
Modification History
4.6.1 Policy principles 
QUT is committed to ensuring that its courses are  relevant, current and provide students with a high quality learning experience.  A robust quality assurance system is integral to maintenance of the quality of  the University&rsquo;s courses. Course quality assurance at QUT is a continuous  process, incorporating regular monitoring, review, benchmarking and improvement  of the University&rsquo;s courses.
QUT's course quality assurance is based on the  following principles:
  Course quality assurance informs strategic planning  and performance evaluation, and is part of the University&rsquo;s Quality Framework (A/2.4). 
  Course quality assurance is evidenced-based and is both  strategic and operational in focus.
  Course quality assurance applies to all courses (C/3.1) with provision of higher levels of scrutiny for under-performing courses.
  Faculties undertake regular reviews of each of their  courses and are encouraged to identify and implement ongoing proactive  improvements.
  Course quality assurance is a continuous process  which closes the loop on previously identified issues and actions.
The Learning and Teaching Unit website provides detailed information including procedures,  resources and templates to support course quality assurance.
Top 
4.6.2 Policy outcomes 
The policy for course quality assurance is designed  to:
facilitate the provision of high quality curriculum  and pedagogy that delivers recognised academic standards 
  enhance strategic outcomes by providing timely  identification of high performing and &lsquo;at risk&rsquo; courses 
  facilitate strong links to the University's  strategic planning, quality and review systems to support the University's  strategic objectives 
  support the cyclical planning and improvement of  courses through data-driven decision making
  ensure compliance with relevant legislative  requirements including responsibilities to international students as defined  under the Education Services for Overseas Students (ESOS) Act 2000.
Top 
4.6.3 Course quality assurance process 
QUT&rsquo;s  approach to course quality assurance involves an ongoing cycle of monitoring  and improvement that requires a minimum level of review for all courses and  more intense levels of examination for under-performing courses. Course quality  assurance entails an annual cycle comprising three formal reporting components  for all courses:
  individual (Individual Course Reports) 
  consolidated (Consolidated Courses Performance  Report), and
  strategic (Strategic Faculty Courses Update).
In  addition, there is a separate component for courses identified as &lsquo;at risk&rsquo;.
Course  quality assurance is linked to mid-year faculty performance meetings, corporate  reviews, external accreditation and reporting to QUT Council.
The  cyclical nature of course quality assurance is closely connected to the  curriculum development and approval process (see C/4.1 ). Course quality  assurance informs the development and improvement of courses and monitors the  progress of curriculum changes.
(a) Individual  Course Reports
The primary  purpose of the Individual Course Reports (ICR) is to prompt an annual review of  each course&rsquo;s performance, drawing on quality and viability data. Reporting is  a critical and diagnostic analysis focusing on significant trends and issues,  action taken and outcomes. Actions from ICRs will often involve the development  and improvement of curriculum and pedagogical approaches.
ICRs are  prepared by faculties for all award courses including research courses and customised education award  courses, as well as for non-award or CPE programs that articulate to award  courses. Guidelines for quality assurance of other customised education  programs are available on the Learning and Teaching Unit website.
 Faculties  prepare separate ICRs where study areas within a course are substantially  distinctive. ICRs for double degrees are considered by each partner faculty.  Courses offered transnationally are reported separately and include additional  requirements.
ICRs are  considered and approved by faculty academic boards for submission to the Deputy  Vice-Chancellor (Learning and Teaching) for coursework courses or the Deputy  Vice-Chancellor (Research and Commercialisation) for research courses.
Detailed  procedures relating to preparation of ICRs and reporting requirements are  available on the Learning and Teaching Unit website.
(b) Consolidated  Courses Performance Report
The primary  purpose of the Consolidated Courses Performance Report (CCPR) is to provide an  overall evaluation to identify high performing and &lsquo;at risk&rsquo; courses using  three broad categories: Viability, Quality of Learning Environment, and  Outcomes. The CCPR is prepared by the  Deputy Vice-Chancellor (Learning and Teaching) and draws on University-wide quality  data and Individual Course Reports. The  CCPR is considered through University Teaching and Learning Committee and  University Academic Board for academic quality matters, and Vice-Chancellor&rsquo;s  Advisory Committee for viability and risk matters, and normally coincides with  the commencement of the University&rsquo;s annual planning cycle.
Detailed  procedures relating to preparation of CCPRs and reporting requirements are  available on the Learning and Teaching Unit website.
(c) Strategic  Faculty Courses Update
The primary  purpose of the Strategic Faculty Courses Update (SFCU) is to provide an  overview of the anticipated strategic direction of the faculty's academic  programs and an indication of curriculum actions likely to occur in the  following year. The SFCU is the  initiating step for curriculum development and approval, and plans for  curriculum development are informed by the faculty's consideration of its  Individual Courses Reports, the Consolidated Courses Performance Report and 'at  risk' courses.
The SFCU is  prepared by the executive dean of faculty and considered by Vice-Chancellor's  Advisory Committee.
Detailed  procedures relating to preparation of SFCUs and reporting requirements are  available on the Learning and Teaching Unit website.
(d) &lsquo;At  risk&rsquo; courses checkpoint
Courses  identified as &lsquo;at risk&rsquo; in the CCPR receive greater scrutiny, and faculties  provide six monthly reports to the Learning and Teaching Unit until the courses  are no longer identified as 'at risk' or they are discontinued. The six monthly reports address actions to  improve the performance of the course, and may include the analysis of  additional data to track the results of actions taken. The Learning and Teaching Unit consolidates  reports for submission to University Academic Board.
QUT defines  minimum student intakes for both undergraduate and postgraduate courses in the  criteria used to identify 'at risk' courses.  The Vice-Chancellor may, in accordance with minimum intakes, decide not  to have an intake into a course if applications are insufficient to achieve  viability.
Detailed  procedures relating to &lsquo;at risk&rsquo; course reporting requirements are available on  the Learning and Teaching Unit website.
Top 
4.6.4 Mid-year performance meetings with faculties and  schools  
Mid-year  performance meetings convened by the Deputy Vice-Chancellor (Academic) provide  faculties with an opportunity to discuss and consider matters relating to  course and teaching quality, including addressing &lsquo;at risk&rsquo; courses.Top 
4.6.5 Role of corporate reviews 
Corporate  reviews form a core part of the University's planning and quality assurance  framework (see A/2.3 )  The corporate review of a faculty includes an external assessment, from  a strategic perspective, of the overall suite of courses offered. 
Top 
4.6.6 External review and accreditation 
External  review and accreditation contributes to Course Quality Assurance through the  independent validation of professionally recognised standards, and facilitates  benchmarking. Faculties with courses that are not covered by professional  accreditation are expected to include external review approaches as part of  periodic curriculum approval and review between corporate review cycles.
Top 
4.6.7 Roles and responsibilities 
Deputy Vice-Chancellor (Learning and Teaching)
Approves  amendments to Course Quality Assurance procedures (Learning and Teaching Unit website).
University committees and officers
 Specific  responsibilities of University committees and officers relating to course  quality assurance are provided in the procedures (Learning and Teaching Unit website). 
Top 
Related Documents 
MOPP A/2.3  Corporate reviews
MOPP A/2.4  QUT Quality Framework
MOPP C/4.1  Curriculum development and approval
Learning and Teaching Unit website
Top 
Modification History 
    Date
    Sections
    Source
    Details
  11.02.11
  All
  Governance Services
  Revised terms of reference due to name change from Office of Teaching Quality to Learning and Teaching Unit, and position title change from Deputy Vice-Chancellor (Teaching Quality) to Deputy Vice-Chancellor (Learning and Teaching)
  14.11.08
  All 
   University Academic Board
  Revised policy, effective from 01.01.09; renumbered to C/4.6 (formerly  C/4.10; also incorporates former C/7.1) (endorsed by Teaching and Learning  Committee 19.08.08)
17.11.06
C/4.10.3, C/4.10.5 of former policy
University Academic Board
Revised policy to reflect  new terminology ("offshore"
replaced by 
&quot;transnational");  quality assurance process for transnational courses (formerly C/4.10.5)  relocated to C/4.8.6 (endorsed by Teaching and Learning Committee 31.10.06)
14.12.05
C/4.10.4 of former policy
Council
Revised policy to include role of Council (endorsed by University Academic Board 01.12.05)
08.08.03
C/4.10.3, C/4.10.5 of former policy
University Academic Board
Revised policy
20.06.03
C/4.10.3, C/4.10.4 of former policy
University Academic Board
Revised policy
05.08.02
All
Chairperson, University Academic Board (endorsed by University Academic 
      Board 31.07.02)
Revised policy
Top 
    Chapter A | Chapter B | Chapter C | Chapter D | Chapter E | Chapter F | Chapter G | Chapter H | Chapter I | Appendices | Protocol for MOPP Policy | Recent Updates
    QUT Home | MOPP Home
    CRICOS No. 00213J
    Privacy | Copyright | Accessibility
    Last modified 10-Feb-2011
    Contact us | Feedback | Disclaimer
