QUT | MOPP | C/5.2 QUT Grading System
            QUT&nbsp;Home
          Contact&nbsp;us
          Search
      MOPP Home
      Protocol for MOPP Policy
      Recent Updates
      C/5.2 QUT Grading System
Chapters
A - Governance/Organisation
B - Human Resources
C - Learning/Teaching
D - Research/Development
E - Student Administration
F - Information Management
G - Financial Management
H - Physical Facilities
I - International/Community
MOPP Appendices
MOPP Protocol
MOPP Updates
[Print-friendly version]
Contact OfficerDean of Studies, Learning and Teaching Unit 
Approval Date13/11/2009 
Approval AuthorityUniversity Academic Board 
Date of Next Review01/12/2012 
5.2.1 Policy principles 
5.2.2 Policy outcomes
5.2.3 QUT  grading scale
5.2.4 Grading system - awards with distinction
5.2.5 Grading system - awards with honours 
5.2.6 Grading system - honours degrees (post-bachelor  degree programs)
5.2.7 Grade point average
Related Documents 
Modification History 
5.2.1 Policy principles 
The awarding of grades requires assessors to exercise professional  judgement informed by well-designed assessment items that provide evidence of  learning outcomes.
QUT&rsquo;s grading system supports the principles for assessment (C/5.1) by  ensuring that the awarding of grades 
  is       underpinned by robust criteria and standards 
  incorporates       rigorous moderation approaches. 
Top
5.2.2 Policy outcomes
This policy is designed to
  promote the use of a fair  and transparent grading system that is aligned to QUT&rsquo;s assessment policy
  provide guidance on the allocation and moderation of grades and       grade point averages.
Top
5.2.3 QUT grading scale  
The University awards numeric grades on  a 7-point scale which are used for the calculation of a grade point average. Some units, generally those incorporating  professional competencies that require minimum specified levels of achievement,  may report final grades as &ldquo;S&rdquo; (Satisfactory) or &ldquo;U&rdquo; (Unsatisfactory). When  determining the final grades, a unit may only have one grading scale applied  (i.e. a 7-point scale or a S (Satisfactory) / U (Unsatisfactory) scale) which  must apply to all students enrolled in the unit.
Other nomenclature and descriptors for final  grading include
  succinct qualitative descriptor 
  generic description of standard to inform grading 
  standard percentage ranges where numeric       references are used.
The process for the allocation and release of results is specified in E/6.5.
(a)	Academic results
Academic results are normally allocated and determined by academic  processes, including appropriate moderation (C/5.1.7). 
Pass Grades
7 - High Distinction
Work provides evidence of an exceptional  level of achievement of unit learning outcomes, such as 
  thorough and well reasoned critical analysis and  evaluation of concepts, theories and practice from the field of study 
  creative and insightful application of well  integrated theoretical and practical knowledge to professional contexts.
Percentage range: 85%-100%.
6 - Distinction
Work provides evidence of a very  high level of achievement of unit learning outcomes, such as 
  thorough critical analysis and evaluation of concepts, theories and practice from the field of study 
  insightful application of integrated theoretical  and practical knowledge to professional contexts.
Percentage range: 75%-84%.
5 &ndash; Credit
Work provides evidence of a high  level of achievement of unit learning outcomes, such as
  critical analysis and evaluation of key concepts,  theories and practice from the field of study
  effective application of theoretical and practical  knowledge to professional contexts. 
Percentage range: 65%-74%.
4 &ndash; Pass
Work provides evidence of an acceptable  level of achievement of unit learning outcomes, such as
  adequate analysis and evaluation of key concepts,  theories and practice from the field of study 
  sound application of fundamental theoretical and  practical knowledge to professional contexts. 
Percentage range: 50%-64%.
S - Satisfactory (where approved for use)
Work provides evidence of an acceptable level of achievement of unit learning outcomes and professional  competencies (where applicable).
U - Unsatisfactory (where approved for use)
Work fails to provide evidence of the achievement of unit learning  outcomes and/or professional competencies (where applicable) at an acceptable  level.
Fail Grades
3 &ndash; Marginal Fail
Work provides evidence of limited and/or disconnected learning which  fails to demonstrate that unit learning outcomes have been achieved. Students  who receive a grade of 3 in a unit may be eligible to apply for supplementary  assessment (E/6.4).
Percentage range: 40%-49%.
2 &ndash; Fail
Work provides evidence of minimal learning in relation to unit learning  outcomes. 
  Percentage range: 25-39%.
1 - Low Fail
Work provides little or no evidence of learning in relation to unit  learning outcomes.
  Percentage range:&nbsp; less than 25%.
Unfinalised Results
A - Result Unfinalised - the result will be issued when available.
(b)	Administrative results  
Administrative results are normally allocated automatically by QUT&rsquo;s  assessment and student management systems. 
Finalised Results
E -&nbsp; Exempt &ndash; specified advanced  standing is granted (E/4.2.2).
K -&nbsp; Withdrawn Fail &ndash; student cancels their  enrolment in the unit after the published withdrawal date for the relevant  teaching period (E/4.3.6).
Unfinalised Results
SA - Supplementary Assessment - supplementary assessment granted.
DA - Deferred Assessment - deferred assessment granted.
T - Assessment Continues - studies extend over more than one teaching  period.
Top
5.2.4 Grading system &ndash; awards with distinction   
Awards with distinction may be awarded in associate degrees, bachelor  degrees, or graduate diplomas, except those courses which are awarded with  honours, to recognise meritorious achievement. 
The following grade point averages (GPA) are used in determining  eligibility for awards with distinction
  GPA of 5.5       for undergraduate courses, and 
  GPA of 5.75       for postgraduate courses.
In exceptional cases, faculty academic boards may recommend to  University Academic Board a relaxation of the GPA requirement for a particular  graduand.&nbsp; Such a recommendation must be  accompanied by an appropriate rationale.
To be eligible for an award with distinction a graduand must have  completed at least 50% of the total credit points required for the course at  QUT. Eligibility for awards with distinction for double degrees is based on  consideration of the separate component degree. For either degree, only the  units associated specifically with that component are taken into account in the  GPA calculations used to determine eligibility.
Top
5.2.5 Grading system &ndash; awards with honours  
To recognise meritorious achievement, honours may be awarded in bachelor  degree courses of 384 credit points or more.
The following levels of honours may be awarded subject to the grade  point averages (GPA) shown
  Honours I (First Class Honours): GPA of 6.00 &ndash; 7.00
  Honours IIA (Second Class Honours, Division A):&nbsp; GPA of 5.50 &ndash; 5.99
  Honours IIB (Second Class Honours, Division B): GPA of 5.00 &ndash; 5.49
In exceptional cases faculty academic boards may recommend to University  Academic Board a relaxation of the GPA requirement for a particular graduand.  Such a recommendation must be accompanied by an appropriate rationale.
To be eligible for an award with honours a  graduand must have completed at least 50% of the total credit points required  for the course at QUT. Eligibility for awards with honours for double degrees  is based on consideration of the separate component degree. For either degree,  only the units associated specifically with that component are taken into  account in the GPA calculations used to determine the level of the award with  honours.
Top
5.2.6 Grading system &ndash; honours degrees (post-bachelor  degree programs)  
Honours degrees (C/3.2.4) are awarded  after account is taken of the candidate's performance in all units and  appropriate weight applied to the project or dissertation.
The following levels of honours may be awarded, subject to the grade  point averages (GPA) shown
  Honours I (First Class Honours): GPA of 6.50-7.00 
  Honours IIA (Second Class Honours, Division A): GPA of 5.50-6.49 
  Honours IIB (Second Class Honours, Division B): GPA of 4.50-5.49 
  Honours III (Third Class Honours): GPA of 4.00-4.49.
A candidate who does not reach the standard required for Honours III  remains with a bachelor&rsquo;s degree.
In exceptional cases faculty academic boards may recommend to University  Academic Board a relaxation of the GPA requirement for a particular graduand.  Such a recommendation must be accompanied by an appropriate rationale.
Top
5.2.7 Grade  point average  
The grade point average (GPA) is a simple numerical index which  summarises the student's academic performance in a course in a single teaching  period and over the duration of the student's enrolment in the course. The GPA  is reported on the Certificate of Results and on the Statement of Academic  Record.
Two values of the GPA are given: the GPA for the semester and the GPA in  the course.
      GPA = 
     sum of (credit points of unit X numeric    value of grade for that unit)
     sum of credit    points of unit(s)
The GPA calculation includes all attempts at units which are awarded a  numeric grade or the result &ldquo;K&rdquo; (Withdrawn-Fail) which is converted to a  1.&nbsp; 
The following are not included in the GPA calculation
  unfinalised       results 
  final grades       of &ldquo;S&rdquo; (Satisfactory) or&nbsp; &ldquo;U&rdquo;       (Unsatisfactory) 
  units       undertaken at another institution 
  units where the status recorded is &ldquo;E&rdquo;       (Exempt). 
Top  
Related Documents 
MOPP C/5.1 Assessment
MOPP E/6.4 Supplementary assessment
MOPP E/6.5 Allocation and release of results
  MOPP E/9.1 Review of grades and academic rulings 
  MOPP E/10.1 Graduation requirements 
  MOPP Appendix 1(c) QUT Student Rules 
  Student Services website
Top 
Modification History 
Date
Sections
Source
Details
  11.02.11
  All
  Governance Services
  Revised terms of reference due to name change from Office of Teaching Quality to Learning and Teaching Unit
  13.11.09
   All
   University Academic Board
  Revised policy effective from Semester 1, 2010; includes  grading systems for awards with distinction and awards with honours (formerly  C/3.2.12).
  14.11.08
   All
   University Academic Board
  Revised and renumbered policy to C/5.2, effective from 01.01.09 (formerly  C/9.2, E/6.5.8, E/6.5.9 and E/6.5.10) (endorsed by University Teaching and  Learning Committee 21.10.08)
   04.04.08
   All
   University Academic Board
  Revised policy &ndash; effective from 01.01.09 (endorsed by Academic Policy  and Procedures Committee 10.03.08)
25.06.04
All
University Academic Board
Revised policy  relating to grades of 3 (effective 25.06.2004)
26.09.03
All
University Academic Board
Revised policy (endorsed by Teaching and Learning Committee 
      09.09.03)- effective 01.01.2004
Top 
    Chapter A | Chapter B | Chapter C | Chapter D | Chapter E | Chapter F | Chapter G | Chapter H | Chapter I | Appendices | Protocol for MOPP Policy | Recent Updates
    QUT Home | MOPP Home
    CRICOS No. 00213J
    Privacy | Copyright | Accessibility
    Last modified 10-Feb-2011
    Contact us | Feedback | Disclaimer
