QUT | MOPP | C/6.3 Blended Learning
            QUT&nbsp;Home
          Contact&nbsp;us
          Search
      MOPP Home
      Protocol for MOPP Policy
      Recent Updates
      C/6.3 Blended Learning
Chapters
A - Governance/Organisation
B - Human Resources
C - Learning/Teaching
D - Research/Development
E - Student Administration
F - Information Management
G - Financial Management
H - Physical Facilities
I - International/Community
MOPP Appendices
MOPP Protocol
MOPP Updates
[Print-friendly version]
Contact OfficerDeputy Vice-Chancellor (Learning and Teaching) 
Approval Date23/07/2010 
Approval AuthorityUniversity Academic Board 
Date of Next Review01/08/2013 
6.3.1 Policy principles 
6.3.2 Policy outcomes 
6.3.3 Blended learning definition 
6.3.4 Design principles for blended learning 
6.3.5 Institutional support for blended learning Related Documents
Modification History 
6.3.1 Policy Principles
Curriculum at QUT is focused on providing support for student learning to  achieve the desired outcomes of the course (C/4.2.4). QUT promotes the use of blended learning  environments as a way of maximising student engagement with the curriculum,  based on the following principles 
  the chosen combination of face-to-face with technologically-supported  approaches to learning should be appropriate for the particular desired  learning outcomes 
  flexibility in the location and time of content delivery should be  provided as appropriate for particular cohorts of students, taking into account  the availability of resources
  equivalence of learning outcomes should be ensured regardless of the delivery mode employed.
Top 
6.3.2 Policy  outcomes 
This policy is designed to
  promote QUT's approach to  the use of blended learning environments
  provide guidance on the use  of different approaches to blended learning and flexible delivery.
Top
6.3.3 Blended  learning definition 
Blended learning is the designed integration of face to face, distance, and electronic approaches to enhance student  learning. The particular blend of physical and virtual learning environments in  a course or unit is chosen to provide optimal support for the desired learning  activities and learning outcomes (C/4.2.).
Top 
6.3.4 Design principles for blended learning 
The primary purpose of a blended learning approach  is to enhance student learning.  The  intent is to carefully match the learning design to the desired learning  outcomes with full attention to the nature of the concepts and skills to be  learned, and the  potential contributions of available technological and traditional tools and  approaches. 
Key  design principles for blended learning are
  The use       of blended learning environments is an integral part of the curriculum       design and should be linked logically to desired and stated learning       outcomes.
  The       technology should support rather than determine the teaching methods.
  A       blended learning approach does not necessarily need to provide students       with a choice in when and where they access the content.
  Blended       learning design should consider the range of available appropriate       technologies and traditional approaches that are most appropriate to the       required learning outcomes. 
  Issues       of student access and equity should be considered when contemplating       designs for learning. 
  To meet       the diverse needs of students, blended learning design should consider       flexible delivery providing alternative access to content in terms of       location and time.
  The       blended learning design should be chosen according to available resources,       including support from central support service areas. 
  Consideration       of blended learning designs should take account of the fact that it may       not reduce expenditure on teaching and learning or reduce teaching loads.
Top
6.3.5 Institutional  support for blended learning  
 QUT  is committed to supporting blended learning to give effect to its approach to  teaching and learning (C/1.1) and encourages individual academics, teaching  teams and course teams to design and implement learning activities that draw on  innovative and appropriate combinations of technology and traditional methods.
Top
Related Documents
MOPP  C/4.2 Curriculum design
Protocols: Blended Learning
Modification History 
    Date
    Sections
    Source
    Details
  11.02.11
  All
  Governance Services
  Revised terms of reference due to position title change from Deputy Vice-Chancellor (Teaching Quality) to Deputy Vice-Chancellor (Learning and Teaching)
   14.11.08
   All
   University Academic Board
  Policy renumbered to C/6.3 (formerly C/7.5)
26.03.99
C/6.3.1
University Academic Board
Approved definition of a flexibly delivered unit
03.07.98
All
University Academic Board
New policy on flexible delivery
Top 
    Chapter A | Chapter B | Chapter C | Chapter D | Chapter E | Chapter F | Chapter G | Chapter H | Chapter I | Appendices | Protocol for MOPP Policy | Recent Updates
    QUT Home | MOPP Home
    CRICOS No. 00213J
    Privacy | Copyright | Accessibility
    Last modified 10-Feb-2011
    Contact us | Feedback | Disclaimer
