QUT | MOPP | D/1.1 Research and innovation framework
            QUT&nbsp;Home
          Contact&nbsp;us
          Search
      MOPP Home
      Protocol for MOPP Policy
      Recent Updates
      D/1.1 Research and innovation framework
Chapters
A - Governance/Organisation
B - Human Resources
C - Learning/Teaching
D - Research/Development
E - Student Administration
F - Information Management
G - Financial Management
H - Physical Facilities
I - International/Community
MOPP Appendices
MOPP Protocol
MOPP Updates
[Print-friendly version]
Contact OfficerDeputy Vice-Chancellor (Research and Commercialisation) 
Approval Date27/03/2009 
Approval AuthorityUniversity Academic Board 
Date of Next Review01/04/2012 
1.1.1 Background 
1.1.2 External obligations
1.1.3 Roles and responsibilities
1.1.4 Research  and Innovation Plan
1.1.5 Research funding
1.1.6 Research  development support
1.1.7 Definitions  relating to research and innovation
  Modification History 
1.1.1 Background 
QUT's research policies are framed in the context of research  policy in the higher education system, set by the Australian Government and  major funding agencies such as the Australian Research Council (ARC) and the  National Health and Medical Research Council (NHMRC).
QUT has taken positive action to develop and diversify its  research culture while at the same time continuing to build on its significant  reputation as an institution of teaching strength and technology. An increased  responsibility to promote its research and research training activities,  commercial research and commercialisation activities to the benefit of the  national and international community has required concentration and selectivity  in the evolution of support initiatives and research infrastructure which incorporate  evaluative review processes and concerns of equity and ethical conduct.
QUT develops strategies to satisfy these responsibilities  through its University  Research and Innovation Committee and by way of an annual University  Research and Innovation Plan which addresses overall University research policy  and forms part of QUT's educational profile. More specific research management  plans of academic organisational units and centres are prepared as part of the  University's strategic management process.
In relation to QUT's position in its social, cultural and  economic environment, particular significance is attached to developing and  promoting a research portfolio that supports strong interaction with the  private and public sector, the professions and the community. QUT has  traditionally close links with the industries which employ its graduates, and a  history of collaboration through research, consultancies, and continuing professional  education. Consultancy and continuing professional education of a high  professional standard, and undertaken at local, national and international  levels, is considered valuable in that it extends and enhances both the  reputation of the University and the expertise of its staff.
QUT  is internationally recognised for its focus on 'real-world', applied research  with a strong emphasis on industry linkages. Consequently, QUT has given rise  to a significant portfolio of technologies which are commercially applicable, and  in many cases industry backed. To  facilitate technology transfer and commercialisation activities, the University  has established qutbluebox.
Top 
1.1.2 External obligations 
QUT must comply with various  legislation relating to research, in particular:
  the Australian Code  for the Responsible Conduct of Research, and
  the National  Statement on Ethical Conduct in Human Research.
Top 
1.1.3 Roles and responsibilities 
Deputy  Vice-Chancellor (Research and Commercialisation)
 The Deputy  Vice-Chancellor (Research and Commercialisation) is responsible to the  Vice-Chancellor for the development and administration of University policy in  the areas of research and allied activities within the Division of Research and  Commercialisation.
The Deputy Vice-Chancellor  (Research and Commercialisation) is the designated officer responsible for  monitoring compliance with the QUT Code of Conduct for  Research.
The Deputy  Vice-Chancellor (Research and Commercialisation) holds ex officio the  position of Chair of University Research and Innovation Committee.
University  Human Research Ethics Committee, University Animal Ethics Committee and QUT  Institute Biosafety Committee are  accountable to the Deputy Vice-Chancellor (Research and Commercialisation) for  their areas of activity.
University Research and Innovation Committee
University Research and Innovation  Committee is a Council committee, accountable to University Academic Board  for fulfilling its terms of reference, established to advise on research  policy, strategy and planning. The Committee is responsible for academic policy relating to research (including  research ethics), and research higher degree training (including issues of  quality).
Within the  context of QUT's strategic management process, University Research and  Innovation Committee is responsible for producing an annual Research and  Innovation Plan  which addresses the overall  University research policy and forms part of QUT's educational profile  presented annually to the Department of Education, Employment and Workplace  Relations (DEEWR).
Top 
1.1.4 Research  and Innovation Plan 
QUT&rsquo;s Research and Innovation Plan is an integral component of  the University's Strategic Plan ( QUT  Blueprint ) and underpins the direct planning activities related  specifically to the attainment of the University's research goals. It is expected that the strategies and  objectives outlined in the Research and Innovation Plan will flow through to  faculty, institute and divisional strategic plans.
Major continuing themes in research policy and management focus  on the promotion of research excellence across all faculties and institutes based  on:
  selectivity and concentration in the provision of research support 
  the continued development of a research and innovation culture throughout the University through human resource management 
  the development of postgraduate research and research training 
  the provision of infrastructure and resources for postgraduate research and research training. 
The Research and Innovation Plan also outlines strategies and  individual initiatives which address these themes and which incorporate the  parallel aims of enhancing recognised research strengths of the University as  well as supporting and encouraging the developing areas of research activity. In addition, the Research and Innovation Plan  outlines a clear strategy for the protection and commercialisation of research  outcomes generated by QUT staff.
Top 
1.1.5 Research funding 
Commonwealth  Block Grant Funding
Australian universities receive Australian  Government funding to support research and research training through block  grants. The distribution of funding to QUT via block grant mechanisms is based  on the University&rsquo;s performance across research income, publications and Research higher degree (RHD) completions / load.&nbsp; 
University  Research Budget
The University Research Budget provides financial  support to enable the objectives and strategies outlined in the top-level  Research and Innovation Plan.&nbsp; Funding is  available to support broad areas of activity such as:
  capacity building
  research institutes
  RHD scholarships
  involvement in large research consortia (Cooperative Research Centres, Centres of Excellence etc)
  research infrastructure
  research development activities.
Decisions on the annual distribution of the  University Research Budget funding are made at the discretion of the Deputy  Vice-Chancellor (Research and Commercialisation), subject to approved  delegations of authority (see QUT Schedule of  Authorities and Delegations ).  Allocations may be made on a case-by-case basis to support large  research consortia bids such as Cooperative Research Centres and Centres of  Excellence or through competitive internal grant rounds. Access to funding may require matching cash  contributions from faculties and/or institutes.
External  funding
A significant component of the funding available to  support research and research training activities at QUT is sourced through  competitive grant rounds or through direct engagement with external partners  (public, private or not-for-profit).;  Depending on the type of activity, this funding is typically managed  through one of the offices within the Division of Research and  Commercialisation.Information on which  office can assist with identifying external funding and managing projects is  available on the Division  of Research and Commercialisation website. 
External funding applications where QUT is  identified as the administering institution require support and authorisation of  the school / centre as well as the faculty / institute prior to submission to  the external party for consideration.  Support and authorisation will be considered in the context of:
  time commitment of the named Chief Investigators
  access to basic facilities (eg computers, workshops, technical support)
  access to major research infrastructure
  access to space
  appropriateness of the budget to cover the full costs of the proposed project
  quality of the application and likely competitiveness
  potential risk to the University including reputational risk, and
  appropriate consideration of the issues around intellectual property.
Approval can be sought through the Office  of Research. 
Applications which are not supported or authorised  by the school / centre and/or faculty / institute may be withheld from  submission by the Deputy Vice-Chancellor (Research and Commercialisation).
Top 
1.1.6 Research  development support 
The  Division of Research and Commercialisation, in conjunction with faculties,  institutes and divisions, plays a key and critical role in developing and  implementing a range of research development activities designed to enhance the  competitiveness and professionalism of staff engaged in research and research  training. Activities are normally  designed with specific cohorts of staff in mind and typically focus on areas  such as:
  grant writing
  publication
  RHD supervision
  research leadership and team building
  research integrity and ethics, and
  collaboration.
From time to time, the  Deputy Vice-Chancellor (Research and Commercialisation), through the Office of Research, allocates  funding from the University Research Budget to support activities that promote,  build and retain research capacity and research infrastructure across the University.
Internal research grant  schemes are developed to facilitate the delivery of strategies and objectives  identified in the current top-level Research and Innovation Plan. Identified areas of support include:
  capacity building in areas of institutional strength and emerging priority
  increased involvement in large research consortia such as Cooperative Research Centres, ARC Centres of Excellence, and NHMRC Centres of Clinical Research Excellence
  improved competitiveness through support programs that focus on track record development, national and international collaboration, and linkages with external partners.
The Office of Research provides  regular updates on internal and external funding opportunities that align with  areas of institutional strength. In addition, the office provides specialised  advice and assistance to individuals and research teams on a range of matters  including grant application preparation, strategies for increasing  competitiveness and attracting funding and general research grant management  processes and practices. The Office of Research also collaborates with internal  and external stakeholders to deliver a range of staff development seminars and  workshops to assist new and experienced researchers to increase their  competitiveness and to link productively with external partners.
Information pertaining to  internal and external funding opportunities and other information pertinent to  pre- and post-award grant management can be found on the Office of Research website.
The Office of Commercial Services supports staff and research teams with advice regarding commercial research,  consultancies, continuing professional education, international projects and  cooperative research centres.
Top 
1.1.7 Definitions relating to research and innovation 
Research is defined as creative work  undertaken on a systematic basis in order to increase the stock of knowledge.  &lsquo;Basic research&rsquo; implies that the research may have no particular application  in view. &lsquo;Applied research&rsquo; sets out to solve practical problems and translate  the findings of basic research into applications which will benefit industry,  government and the community at large. &lsquo;Applied research and development&rsquo;  entail systematic investigation or experimentation involving innovation or technical  venture, the outcome of which is new knowledge with a specific practical  application, or new or substantially improved materials, products, devices,  processes or services. Activities which directly support the applied research  and development process (for example, industrial design, engineering design,  production engineering, operations research, mathematical modelling and  analysis, and psychological research) may be considered part of applied  research and development. 
In the  creative arts (performing, visual, literary and media arts), studio-based  enquiry is a research equivalent activity where the outcomes of such enquiry  extend the stock of knowledge and/or the artform itself. By the demonstration  of this scholarship of discovery, research in the creative arts is  distinguished from routine professional practice in the creative arts. Within  this definition, artform-specific modes of presentation (eg exhibitions,  performances, published literary works) are acknowledged as research  publications.
In practice,  research workers combine basic research and applied research and development  when solving problems, so that the usual term research and development encompasses  the relevant aspects of the basic research and applied research and development  processes.
Sponsored  research is  defined as basic, strategic or applied research funded by an external agency  through an application-based, competitive peer review process. This type  of funding is awarded to, and administered by the University on behalf of a  funding agency. Typically, the intellectual property generated through  this type of endeavour is owned by the University. External partners  (private, public or not-for-profit) may be involved in sponsored research  projects as collaborating partners.
Commercial  research is defined  as research or development which is conducted at the request of and paid for by  individuals, agencies, companies or other organisations external to the  University. It involves creative work undertaken on a systematic basis in order  to increase the stock of knowledge.
Commercial  research is normally conducted on a contractual basis and payment for the  research is made to the University.
Consultancy includes  all work (other than research and development) which is within the ambit of a  staff member's professional and academic qualifications, experience and  expertise and for which payment is made either to the staff member or to the  University by any person or organisation other than the University. It usually  comprises problem solving in specific social, industrial or commercial  contexts. 
  For QUT  purposes, publishing and publication activities shall be regarded as scholarly  activities associated with accredited courses or research, and not as  consultancy.
Outside  work refers to  any work, whether paid or unpaid, undertaken by a staff member for an outside  entity, or in a self-employed capacity, where the work relates to the staff  member's position at QUT. It does not include second jobs unrelated to the  discipline in which the staff member is employed at QUT, or activities arising  from personal interests which are not related to the staff member's position at  QUT. Outside work is categorised as either 'university outside work' or  'private outside work'. University policies on outside work (academic staff)  and outside employment (professional staff) are in D/7.1 and B/7.9 respectively. 
Chief  investigator is  defined as an academic member of staff who has the available time and capacity  to make a serious contribution to the proposed project.; To be eligible as a  chief investigator on a project an academic staff member of the University must  be employed at a minimum of .5 full-time equivalent for the duration of the  project and must take significant intellectual responsibility for the project.  In exceptional cases, adjunct professors, emeritus professors and visiting  fellows may be considered eligible to be chief investigators. Such cases will  be addressed on a case-by-case basis in accordance with the requirements of the  external granting agency or commercial partner.
Prior to submitting an application to an external organisation  for consideration, it is the responsibility of the academic staff member to  seek and obtain the support and approval of their head of school / centre director  and/or faculty / institute.
For QUT purposes, the first-named chief investigator on a project  grant application will be considered the &ldquo;Project Leader&rdquo; responsible for  managing the project on behalf of the University and ensuring the research program  is undertaken in a manner that is consistent with the QUT Code of Conduct for  Research. The first-named chief investigator  is also responsible for ensuring that administrative and financial requirements  associated with external funding are met in a timely manner.
Active researcher is a staff member who has  achieved a minimum of two of the three performance targets detailed below that  contribute to the University&rsquo;s earnings via Commonwealth Block Grant funding  and QUT&rsquo;s capacity to meet its objectives under the top-level Research and  Innovation Plan.
    Performance Targets
    Income
    $60,000  in research income from sources external to QUT over three years.
    Refereed  Outputs
    Three or  more refereed outputs (including refereed publications, designs, patents,  creative works or major exhibitions) over three years.
    RHD  Supervision
    Supervision  of two research students (not more than one of whom may be an Honours student)  per annum on average over three years as Principal Supervisor or Associate  Supervisor.
Early Career Researcher is  defined as a staff member who is in the first five years of their academic or  research-only employment, allowing for uninterrupted, continuous research  development, following the award of a Doctor of Philosophy (PhD) or recognised  equivalent.
Staff who have been actively  involved in research or research related activities over a number of years, but  have only recently received a PhD (or equivalent) are typically not considered  to be Early Career Researchers.
Early Career Researchers,  under the direction of their supervisor and/or research mentor, are expected to  develop a realistic research plan as part of their performance planning and  review that focuses on: 
  attraction  of internal/external funding to support their research program
  engagement  with other researchers with complementary expertise and interests
  dissemination  of research findings through appropriate discipline-specific outlets
  participation  in supervisor accreditation programs and, once accredited, research higher degree  student supervision
  engagement  with external end-users as appropriate.
Research Intensive researcher is a  staff member who has achieved a minimum of two of the three performance targets  detailed below that contribute to the University&rsquo;s earnings via Commonwealth  Block Grant funding and QUT's capacity to meet its objectives under the  top-level Research and Innovation Plan.
    Performance Targets
    Income
    $150,000  in research income from sources external to QUT over three years.
    Refereed  Outputs
    Six or  more refereed outputs (including refereed designs, patents, creative works or  major exhibitions) of significant quality as acknowledged by the discipline  area over three years. In terms of refereed publications, significant quality  will be defined as A*, A level journals (or conference proceedings) as per the  ERA journal assessment.
    RHD  Completion
    Two  research higher degree student completions (Masters by Research, PhD or  Professional Doctorate) per annum on average over three years as Principal  Supervisor.
Top
Modification History 
Date
Sections
Source
Details
   27.03.09
  D/1.1.7
  University Academic Board
  Revised  to update definitions relating to active researchers (endorsed by University  Research and Innovation Committee 13.11.08)
   04.04.08
   All 
  University Academic Board
  Revised policy to reflect  current organisational arrangements (incorporates former policies D/2.2, D/2.3,  D/2.4 and D/3.1)
01.03.06
D/1.1.2
Council
Revised definition relating to outside work (consistent with new
        policy D/7.1 and revised policy B/7.9)
01.07.05
D/1.1.1
University Academic Board
Revised in accordance with new Institutes policy
01.01.02
All
Pro-Vice-Chancellor (Research and Advancement)
Revised in accordance with new centres policy (approved by University
        Academic Board 16.11.01)
20.05.99
D/1
Research Manager
Updated
Top 
    Chapter A | Chapter B | Chapter C | Chapter D | Chapter E | Chapter F | Chapter G | Chapter H | Chapter I | Appendices | Protocol for MOPP Policy | Recent Updates
    QUT Home | MOPP Home
    CRICOS No. 00213J
    Privacy | Copyright | Accessibility
    Last modified 06-Oct-2010
    Contact us | Feedback | Disclaimer
