QUT | MOPP | D/2.7 Procedures for dealing with allegations of research misconduct
            QUT&nbsp;Home
          Contact&nbsp;us
          Search
      MOPP Home
      Protocol for MOPP Policy
      Recent Updates
      D/2.7 Procedures for dealing with allegations of research misconduct
Chapters
A - Governance/Organisation
B - Human Resources
C - Learning/Teaching
D - Research/Development
E - Student Administration
F - Information Management
G - Financial Management
H - Physical Facilities
I - International/Community
MOPP Appendices
MOPP Protocol
MOPP Updates
[Print-friendly version]
Contact OfficerDirector, Office of Research 
Approval Date16/11/2007 
Approval AuthorityUniversity Academic Board 
Date of Next Review01/07/2008 
2.7.1 Application
2.7.2 Definition of research misconduct 
2.7.3 Advisors on integrity in research 
2.7.4 Receipt of complaints 
2.7.5 Formal investigation of complaints - staff  
2.7.6 Formal investigation of complaints - students  
2.7.7 Student appeals 
Related Documents 
Modification History
THIS POLICY IS CURRENTLY UNDER REVIEW -
    CONTACT Director, Office of Research FOR FURTHER DETAILS.
2.7.1 Application 
The  following procedures provide an institutional framework for  dealing with allegations of research misconduct and establish a fair and  equitable process for determining whether research misconduct has  occurred. QUT's process for  dealing with allegations of research misconduct is  consistent with the Australian  Code for the Responsible Conduct of Research.
Top 
2.7.2 Definition of research  misconduct 
Research  misconduct   is constituted by a failure to comply with the specific  provisions of the QUT Code of Conduct for Research and the broader Australian Code for the Responsible Conduct  of Research.
Research   misconduct   includes, but is not limited to
    the misleading ascription of authorship  including the listing of authors without their permission 
    attributing work to others who have not in  fact contributed to the research 
    lack of appropriate acknowledgment of work  primarily produced by a research student / trainee or associate 
    the fabrication of data and claimed results  which cannot be substantiated 
    the falsification or misrepresentation of data  and results including changing records
    plagiarism
    falsification or misrepresentation to obtain  funding
    the pursuit of research practices which  deviate in critical ways from those commonly accepted within the research  community for proposing, conducting or publishing research 
    a breach of the University's research ethics  arrangements (in accordance with the National  Statement on Ethical Conduct in Human  Research and/or the Australian  Code of Practice for the Care and Use of Animals for Scientific Purposes , and/or the State 
    and Federal Gene Technology Regulations). 
Research  misconduct  does not include honest errors or honest differences in interpretations or  judgements of data.
  Examples of research misconduct include, but are not limited to, the  following
  (a) Misappropriation
  A researcher or reviewer shall not intentionally or recklessly
    plagiarise, which shall be understood to mean  the presentation of the documented words or ideas of another as his or her own,  without attribution appropriate for the medium of presentation 
    make use of any information in breach of any  duty of confidentiality associated with the review of any manuscript or grant  application 
    intentionally omit reference to the relevant  published work of others for the purpose of inferring personal discovery of new  information. 
(b) Interference
      A researcher or reviewer shall not intentionally and without authorisation  take or sequester or materially damage any research-related property of  another, including without limitation the apparatus, reagents, biological  materials, writings, data, hardware, software, or any other substance or device  used or produced in the conduct of research. If warranted by the extent of  substantial damage to property, cases may also be referred and dealt with in  accordance with procedures outlined in the QUT Code of Conduct (for  staff) and E/8.1 Management of student discipline (for students), in addition to these procedures.
  (c) Misrepresentation
   A researcher or reviewer shall not, with intent to deceive or in reckless  disregard for the truth
    state or present a material or significant  falsehood
    omit  a fact so that what is stated or presented as a whole states or presents a  material or significant falsehood. 
  Top 
2.7.3 Advisors on integrity  in research 
(a)	The Faculty Research Ethics Advisor (see D/6.1.4) in each faculty  will act as adviser to staff and students on issues of integrity in research/research misconduct. It is expected that Faculty Research Ethics Advisors will  be familiar with
  the University's Code of Conduct 
  the Australian Code  for the Responsible Conduct of Research
  the National  Statement on Ethical Conduct in Human Research 
  the Australian  Code of Practice for the Care and Use of Animals for Scientific Purposes 
  the State and Federal Gene Technology Regulations 
  Values and  Ethics - Guidelines for Ethical Conduct in Aboriginal and Torres Strait       Islander Health Research (NHMRC, 2003) 
  the QUT Code of Conduct for  Research
  the Code of Good Practice for Postgraduate Research Studies and Supervision at QUT.
In  the course of providing advice, the Faculty Research Ethics Advisor may  recommend one of the following options
  (i) referring the matter directly to the person  against whom the allegation is being made  
  (ii) not proceeding, or withdrawing the  allegation, if discussion resolves the concerns
  (iii) referring the allegation to a person  in a supervisory capacity for resolution at the   school or faculty level
  (iv) making an allegation of research  misconduct in writing to the Deputy Vice-Chancellor (Research and  Commercialisation). 
(b) Where staff or students, in seeking advice  from the Faculty Research Ethics Advisor, recognise a potential or actual  conflict of interest either on personal or professional grounds, the staff member  or student must advise the Deputy Vice-Chancellor (Research and  Commercialisation). 
(c) The Faculty Research Ethics Advisor will  advise staff and students about what constitutes misconduct in research and  issues of integrity in research, and explain the rights and responsibilities of  individuals in relation to any complaints. 
(d) The Faculty Research Ethics Advisor's  role does not extend to the investigation or assessment of the allegation.
Top 
2.7.4 Receipt of complaints 
  Allegation of research misconduct - Preliminary Review
  (a) A complaint of suspected or alleged misconduct in research by  a QUT-related research worker, including QUT staff and postgraduate students,  whether or not it has occurred within the University, is to be made as soon as  practicable in the first instance to the Deputy Vice-Chancellor (Research and Commercialisation),  as the Designated Person under the QUT Code of Conduct for Research (D/2.6). 
  (b) The Deputy Vice-Chancellor (Research and  Commercialisation) should be provided with all available information relevant  to the complaint, by the complainant. Where appropriate, the  Deputy Vice-Chancellor  (Research and Commercialisation) may seek advice from the Chair of the relevant  ethics committee regarding the validity of the allegation.
  (c) Upon receipt of the allegation of research  misconduct, the Deputy Vice-Chancellor (Research and Commercialisation) must  immediately provide the person/s against whom the allegation is made, with a  written statement of any allegations. 
  (d) The Deputy Vice-Chancellor (Research and  Commercialisation) will seek a written response from the person/s against whom  the allegations have been made within 10 working days of notification to that  person of the allegations. This response will be considered to determine whether  a case exists that research misconduct may have occurred. 
  (e) In the case of allegations of staff  research misconduct, the Deputy Vice-Chancellor (Research and  Commercialisation) may decide to initiate an internal institutional research  misconduct inquiry by appointing appropriate members, including at least one  member with experience and knowledge in the relevant field or research and at  least one member who is familiar with the responsible conduct of research. At least one member should have experience on  similar panels or have relevant experience or expertise. The role of the panel is to investigate the  case and to ensure the fair dealing and protection of all interested parties  during the review. Such fair dealing must consider the protection of persons  making allegations in good faith, and of persons accused of misconduct. 
  (f) In the case of allegations of student  research misconduct, the matter may be referred to the Student Research  Misconduct Committee and/or to the Registrar to be dealt with under the Management of student discipline policy (E/8.1) in cases relating to property damage. The role of the  Committee is to investigate the case and to ensure the fair dealing and  protection of all interested parties during the review. Such fair dealing must  consider the protection of persons making allegations in good faith, and of  persons accused of misconduct.
  (g) Without limiting the generality of the  following, interested parties may include
      a person bringing an allegation 
      a person against whom an allegation is made 
      staff, students and trainees working with  persons making an allegation, or with persons against whom an allegation is  made 
      journals and other media reporting research,  subject to suspected, alleged or found research misconduct 
      funding bodies supporting persons or research  involved 
      the public.
    (h) The Deputy  Vice-Chancellor (Research and Commercialisation) will advise the  Vice-Chancellor on the outcomes of any inquiry  process and will provide a recommendation on further action to be taken as appropriate. 
    Top 
2.7.5 Formal investigation of complaints - staff  
  (a) If the preliminary  review by the Deputy Vice-Chancellor (Research and Commercialisation) finds  that a sufficient case exists, a formal investigation in relation to  misconduct, serious misconduct or unsatisfactory performance will be  established. 
  (b) The procedures to be followed are  contained in the following
    for academic staff - in the relevant enterprise bargaining  agreement&nbsp; 
    for professional staff - in the relevant enterprise bargaining  agreement&nbsp; 
    for senior staff - in accordance with Disciplinary action for  misconduct and serious misconduct - senior staff.
  (c) If research misconduct is found to have  occurred, the findings must be reported to
    any agency that funded work in respect of  which such misconduct occurred
    any agency which is currently supporting the  person found to have engaged in research misconduct
    journals and other media through which the  research in question was reported. 
  (d) Where a person accused of research  misconduct resigns from the University, a formal investigation to establish the  facts of the matter in which research misconduct is alleged to have occurred  will be undertaken or continued. Distortions of the research record must be  rectified, whether or not the persons involved remain in the institution. 
  (e) If, after formal investigation, no case is  found to exist, the research worker concerned shall be informed in writing that  no further action will be taken.
    Top
2.7.6 Formal investigation of complaints - students 
  (a) These procedures  recognise that the Deputy Vice-Chancellor (Research and Commercialisation) is  generally best placed to form judgement  on  the seriousness of an instance of student research misconduct. 
(b) Allegations of student research misconduct  will be dealt with by a Student Research Misconduct Committee (D/2.2).
(c) The procedures for dealing with allegations of student research  misconduct are detailed in E/8.1.7.
(d) Penalties that may be imposed for proven student research misconduct are  detailed in E/8.1.8.
Top
  2.7.7 Student appeals
  The procedure for appealing against the imposition of a penalty in  relation to academic dishonesty is detailed in E/8.1.10.    
Top
	  Related Documents 
	  MOPP B/8.1 Code of Conduct
	  MOPP  D/2.6 QUT Code of Conduct for Research 
	  MOPP D/5.4  Code of Good Practice for Postgraduate Research Studies and Supervision at QUT
	  MOPP E/2.1 QUT Student Code of Conduct
	  MOPP E/8.1 Management of student discipline
	  Australian Code  for the Responsible Conduct of Research
	  National  Statement on Ethical Conduct in Human Research
	  Statement on  Consumer and Community Participation in Health and Medical Research (NHMRC and Consumers' Health Forum  of Australia Inc, 2002)
	  Values and  Ethics - Guidelines for Ethical Conduct in Aboriginal and Torres Strait  Islander Health Research (NHMRC, 2003)
	  Top
  Modification History
      Date
      Sections
      Source
      Details
      31.08.10
       All
       Governance Services
      Policy revised to reflect introduction of new student discipline  framework from 01.09.10.
      16.11.07
       All
       University Academic Board
      Revised procedures for  dealing with allegations of research misconduct (consistent with  revisions to the QUT Code of Conduct for Research and to  ensure compliance with the Australian Code for the Responsible Conduct of  Research); renumbered  to D/2.7 - formerly D/2.6.8 (endorsed by University Research and  Innovation Committee 02.11.07)
    Chapter A | Chapter B | Chapter C | Chapter D | Chapter E | Chapter F | Chapter G | Chapter H | Chapter I | Appendices | Protocol for MOPP Policy | Recent Updates
    QUT Home | MOPP Home
    CRICOS No. 00213J
    Privacy | Copyright | Accessibility
    Last modified 10-Dec-2010
    Contact us | Feedback | Disclaimer
