QUT | MOPP | D/2.6 QUT Code of Conduct for Research
            QUT&nbsp;Home
          Contact&nbsp;us
          Search
      MOPP Home
      Protocol for MOPP Policy
      Recent Updates
      D/2.6 QUT Code of Conduct for Research
Chapters
A - Governance/Organisation
B - Human Resources
C - Learning/Teaching
D - Research/Development
E - Student Administration
F - Information Management
G - Financial Management
H - Physical Facilities
I - International/Community
MOPP Appendices
MOPP Protocol
MOPP Updates
[Print-friendly version]
Contact OfficerDirector, Office of Research 
Approval Date13/11/2009 
Approval AuthorityUniversity Academic Board 
Date of Next Review01/12/2010 
2.6.1 Principles  for the responsible conduct of research
2.6.2 Application  
2.6.3 Roles and responsibilities for responsible  conduct of research  
2.6.4 Research misconduct  
2.6.5 Management of research data  
2.6.6 Supervision and training of research students  and staff  
2.6.7 Publication  and dissemination of research findings
2.6.8 Authorship 
2.6.9 Peer  review 
2.6.10  Management of conflicts of interest relating to research activities
2.6.11 Collaborative research with other institutions
Related Documents 
Modification History
2.6.1 Principles for the responsible conduct of  research 
QUT  is committed to the highest standard of integrity in research. The University  expects that all staff, researchers and research students will comply with all  relevant policies, procedures and regulatory obligations. The QUT Code of  Conduct for Research forms an integral part of the University&rsquo;s research  governance framework and promotes ethical research behaviour within the  University community. It is consistent with the Australian Code for the Responsible Conduct of Research. 
The  QUT Code of Conduct for Research is based on the following principles:
  Research at QUT is undertaken in an ethical and accountable environment, based on shared commitment by the University and its researchers to maintain a strong culture of integrity and fair conduct
  The QUT Code of Conduct for Research imposes requirements on researchers which are in addition to the general ethical obligations for members of the University community set out in the QUT Code of Conduct (B/8.1)
  The University  has no tolerance for any misconduct or unethical behaviour in its research activities and all allegations of research misconduct will be investigated and, where necessary, managed in accordance with the research misconduct procedures (D/2.7)
  QUT expects that research data and primary materials will be properly collected, managed and retained in accordance with relevant legislation and University policies 
  All researchers will be appropriately trained in relevant research policies and procedures and the University&rsquo;s expectations for ethical and responsible behaviour
  QUT encourages its researchers to publicise their research findings in both the academic and wider communities, though the University acknowledges that in particular cases, this may be subject to contractual or commercialisation considerations
  QUT expects that the authorship of research publications will be properly determined in accordance with the specified criteria of this Code (D/2.6.8 below)
  QUT supports peer review of research findings and encourages its researchers to participate in peer review activities
  Conflicts of interests relating to research will be managed in accordance with the QUT Code of Conduct (B/8.1)
  QUT supports collaborative research with other institutions and expects that all such research will be properly conducted in accordance with the requirements of this Code (D/2.6.11 below)
  QUT encourages research which involves participation by members of the wider community, including Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples, and expects that any such research will comply with all relevant national codes and guidelines.
Top 
2.6.2 Application 
The  QUT Code of Conduct for Research applies to all members of the University  community including:
  Employees of the University, regardless of employment type, who undertake or provide assistance or support to research activities
  Undergraduate and postgraduate students
  Visiting and adjunct academics
  Volunteers who contribute to or act on behalf of the University (eg associate supervisors of students)
  Individuals associated with QUT related entities
  Individuals granted access to QUT property, services or infrastructure
  Consultants and independent contractors undertaking research-related services for QUT.
Top 
2.6.3 Roles and responsibilities for responsible  conduct of research 
(a) University Academic  Board
University  Academic Board is responsible for approving the QUT Code of Conduct for  Research on delegated authority of Council (Appendix 3).
(b) Deputy Vice-Chancellor  (Research and Commercialisation)
The Deputy Vice-Chancellor (Research and  Commercialisation) is responsible for:
  the implementation of the Code of Conduct for Research, including the provision of training to researchers on its requirements 
  fostering a culture of responsible research conduct across the University 
  managing allegations of breaches of the QUT Code of Conduct for Research and allegations of research misconduct in accordance with the University&rsquo;s procedures (D/2.7) 
  the execution of non-disclosure and confidentiality agreements relating to research matters (Appendix 3).
(c) Executive deans and assistant deans  (research)
Executive deans and assistant deans (research) are  responsible for fostering a culture of responsible research conduct in their  faculties.
(d) Heads of school,  institute directors, centre directors
Heads of school, institute directors and  centre directors are responsible for:
  Ensuring the proper collection, storage, security and disposal of research data, including primary materials, within their operational area
  Ensuring that research staff and students receive adequate training in relevant University codes and policies, including research ethics
  The promotion of responsible authorship practices and resolution of conflicts arising from disputes about authorship.
(e) Director, Office of  Research
The Director, Office of Research is  responsible for maintaining the Register of Disclosed Interests for Research  and reporting annually to the Vice-Chancellor on disclosed interests.
(f) QUT research students  and staff
All QUT researchers are responsible for  complying with the requirements of the Australian Code  for the Responsible Conduct of Research, the QUT Code of Conduct, the  QUT Code of Conduct for Research and any other relevant University policy and  procedure affecting the conduct of research activity at QUT.
Top 
2.6.4 Research misconduct 
  The  University has no tolerance for any misconduct or unethical behaviour in its  research activities. All allegations that this Code has been breached will be  dealt with in accordance with the procedures set out in D/2.7. 
Top 
2.6.5 Management of research data  
  Research  data are recognised as a valuable product of the research process and are  useful to researchers throughout the research cycle. 
  All  research data, including primary materials, are considered to be University  records and must be stored, disposed of or transferred in accordance with the  QUT records management policy (F/6.1).The University is  committed to the protection of personal information which may be contained in  research data and primary materials. When collecting, storing, using or  disclosing personal information, researchers must abide by the mandatory  requirements of the Information Privacy  Act 2009 and the University's Information privacy policy (F/6.2).
  Research  data should generally be made available, via open access, for use by other  researchers unless a specific and valid reason exists for not doing so.
The  Research Data Management Policy (D/2.8) provides guidance on the following aspects  of managing research data and should be consulted prior to commencing a  research project:
    Research data  management planning
    Storage and security  of research data
    Retention
    Record keeping
    Access, privacy and confidentiality
    Disposal.
   Top
2.6.6 Supervision and training of research students  and staff  
  The  University expects that research students and staff will be appropriately  trained in relevant research policies and procedures and the University&rsquo;s  expectations for ethical and responsible behaviour.
  Research  students and staff include:
    QUT students enrolled in an honours, research masters or doctoral program, or any substantial postgraduate research project or dissertation, and 
    research assistants, associates, fellows and similar positions appointed at the level of academic Level A or Level B, or equivalent. 
  (a) Training of research  students and staff
An executive dean and assistant dean (research), together  with a head of school, institute director or centre director, must ensure that  all research students and staff new to the University receive an induction  program on their commencement which includes reference to the following:
    any relevant legislative requirements or government guidelines
    relevant University policies and procedures, including this Code,  the QUT Code of Conduct, research ethics policies and privacy requirements
    any workplace health and safety or environmental protection requirements for research practices, specific equipment or work spaces including laboratories 
    the responsibilities of a student or staff member for conducting responsible research at the University.  
  (b) Supervision of research  students and staff
  An  executive dean and assistant dean (research), together with a head of school, institute director or centre director, must ensure that each new research  student and staff member is paired with a responsible and appropriately  qualified supervisor or mentor. Supervisors of research students and staff  must:
    adhere to the standard for behaviour outlined in the QUT Code of Conduct (B/8.1) and according to the guidelines contained in the University's Doctor of Philosophy Regulations and the Code of Good Practice for Postgraduate       Research Studies and Supervision at QUT
    provide advice in all matters of good research practice consistent with this Code and the Code of Good Practice for Postgraduate Research Studies and Supervision at       QUT 
    ensure, as far as possible, the validity of research data obtained by a research student under their supervision. 
Top
  2.6.7 Publication and dissemination of research  findings
  Prior to the publication of research findings,  researchers must complete and lodge a Statement of Authorship and Location of  Data form with their school / institute / centre or research unit.
  QUT  supports Open Content Licensing principles (D/3.1 Intellectual Property Policy)  and provides for their application in some specific settings (eg teaching grant  outputs). Examples of open content  licensing systems include the Creative Commons licences, the GNU Public  Document Licence and the AESharenet Licences.  It is mandatory for research outputs to be stored on QUT&rsquo;s institutional  repository ePrints.
  Researchers are encouraged to publicise their  research findings in both the academic and wider communities. However, as a general principle,  research findings should not be reported in the public media before they have  been reported to a research audience of experts in the field of research -  preferably by publication in a peer-reviewed journal. 
Before disseminating research findings, researchers  must give consideration to:
    Any confidentiality requirements of a contractual or funding agreement
    The protection of any personal information in the research data (F/6.2)
    Intellectual property rights (D/3.1)
    Any contractual restrictions or delays on publication, including any contractual requirements to obtain prior consent from funding bodies.  
  When publicising or disseminating research findings, researchers must comply with the following protocols:
    Publication of multiple papers based on the same set(s) or subset(s) of data is not acceptable except where there is full cross-referencing within the papers (for example, in a series of closely related work, or where a complete  work grew out of a preliminary publication and this is fully acknowledged) 
    If  significantly similar work is presented to more than one publisher, this       must be disclosed to the publisher at the time of submission. Details must be supplied on the University's Statement of Authorship and Location of Data form . 
    All other relevant work must be acknowledged properly when research findings are disseminated 
    It may be desirable for researchers to seek advice prior to dissemination from public or professional authorities responsible for specific issues of public policy or concern. In such situations, the unreported status of the findings must be made clear to the authority. Only where responsible authorities fail to act can prior reporting to the media be justified, and again the unpublished status of the findings must be reported at the same time 
    Where researchers have privately reported research that has not yet been exposed to open peer-review scrutiny, (for example, to prospective financial supporters), there is an obligation to explain fully the status of the work and the peer-review mechanisms to which it will be subjected 
    Publications must include information on the sources of financial support for the research. Financial sponsorship that carries an embargo on such naming of a sponsor must be avoided 
    All clinical trials must be registered with a recognised register in order to promote access to such information. 
Top      
      2.6.8 Authorship
      The Australian Code for the Responsible  Conduct of Research defines authorship as being based on substantial contributions in a combination of:
        conception and design of a project
        analysis and interpretation of research data 
        drafting significant parts of a work or critically revising it so as to contribute to the interpretation.
      Schools,  institutes, centres and research units are responsible for encouraging and  promoting responsible authorship practices that are considered appropriate  within the discipline area. QUT expects that the authorship of research  publications will be properly determined in accordance with the following  criteria.
      (a) Determining authorship
        An author's role in a research output must be sufficient for that person to take public responsibility for at least that part of the output in the person's area of expertise. 
        Authorship of a research output cannot be claimed where participation is solely in the acquisition of funding or the collection of data. General supervision of the research group does not constitute authorship. 
        Authorship of a research output should be discussed between researchers at an early stage in a research project and reviewed whenever there are changes in participation.
        Due recognition of all participants is part of a proper research process, and the authors must ensure that others who have contributed to the work are recognised in the research output. Authors should ensure that the work of research students / trainees, research assistants and technical officers is properly acknowledged. Courtesy demands that individuals and organisations providing facilities should also be acknowledged. 
        No person who is an author, consistent with the minimum requirement for authorship can be excluded as an author without their prior written permission. This must be attached to the University's Statement of Authorship and Location of Data forms and lodged and retained by the school / centre.
        Reasonable steps must be taken to respect the right of a creator of intellectual property to be acknowledged as the author of a work and to endeavour to ensure that others respect that right, unless the creator wishes not to be acknowledged or chooses not to attribute the work at the time of creation. 
        Reasonable steps must be taken to respect the right of integrity of authorship in respect of works produced at QUT. The University is not obliged to take further action if the moral rights of authors are not (asserted) exercised. Guidelines for staff on moral rights are in section D/3.1.10 of the University's Intellectual property       policy. 
      (b) Reporting and recording of authorship
        When there is more than one co-author of a research output, one co-author (by agreement amongst the authors) should be nominated as executive author of the whole research output and should take responsibility for record keeping regarding the research output. 
        Publication of the research output, including electronic publication, requires all co-authors of the publication to sign the University's Statement of Authorship and Location of Data form , to certify that the minimum criteria for authorship have been fulfilled. 
        Signature and lodgement of the University's Statement of Authorship and Location of Data forms must be retained in the school, institute, centre or research unit and may be subsequently audited at the request of the Deputy Vice-Chancellor (Research and Commercialisation). 
        If, for any reason, one or more co-authors are unavailable or otherwise unable to sign the statement of authorship, the head of school / institute director / centre director may sign on their behalf and must provide a written statement noting the reason for their unavailability. 
(c) Resolving conflicts over authorship
      The  head of school, institute director or centre director is responsible for the  resolution of conflicts arising through disputes about authorship. Where  resolution cannot be achieved, the matter should be escalated to the executive dean of the Faculty. If resolution of the  matter is not possible, the matter should be referred by the executive dean to  the Deputy Vice-Chancellor (Research and Commercialisation) for consideration.
Top
      2.6.9 Peer review 
QUT recognises that peer review is an essential  component of maintaining research integrity. The University supports peer  review of its research findings and encourages its researchers to participate  as both reviewer and by having their own work reviewed. 
      (a) Acting as a peer reviewer
When  acting as a peer reviewer, QUT expects researchers to conduct reviews  responsibly in accordance with the Australian  Code for the Responsible Conduct of Research. This includes:
        complying with the criteria to be applied and meeting specified timeframes 
        respecting confidentiality requirements 
        acting objectively and professionally
        declaring all conflicts of interest 
        only reviewing within their area of expertise.
      (b) Having research findings peer reviewed
      Researchers who receive public funding are expected  to participate in peer review and this may be a requirement of some funding  agreements. Any researcher who is having work peer reviewed must not seek to influence the  process or outcomes.
Top 
      2.6.10 Management of conflicts of interest relating to  research activities
      Conflicts  of interests relating to research will be managed in accordance with the QUT  Code of Conduct (B/8.1). All QUT  researchers are expected to make full disclosure of any perceived, potential or  actual conflicts of interest in their research. The University maintains a  Register of Disclosed Interests for Research for this purpose.
      (a) Identifying conflicts of interest
A  conflict of interest exists where the personal or financial activities of a  member of the University community may impact on their University duties or  responsibilities. Perceived, potential or actual conflicts of interest in  research activities may arise as a result of:
        a personal relationship with a key member of a research activity (for example, a peer reviewer, research student, fellow staff member, project team member or supervisor)
        a professional relationship with a key member of a research activity (for example, being a director or board member of a relevant company or professional association)
        a pecuniary relationship with a key member of a research activity (for example,  holding shares in a particular company, personal financial dealings with a potential research sponsor,  sponsorship of a research project by a company having a pecuniary interest in the outcomes or research findings)
        a committee member considering for approval a research project of which they are a team member.
      Further  guidance on the identification of conflicts of interest is provided in the QUT Code of Conduct (B/8.1).
      (b) Managing conflicts of interest
      Conflicts  of interests are usually managed by avoiding, reducing, transferring or  retaining the conflict. In the research context, management of conflicts may  include making alternative arrangements for supervision or decision-making  relating to the research project or disclosing sponsorships in published  papers. The appropriate management of the conflict will be agreed between the  staff member and their supervisor, and should be reviewed on at least an annual  basis.
      Further  information on managing conflicts of interest is provided in the QUT Code of  Conduct (B/8.1) and the University&rsquo;s procedures for the disclosure of interests. 
      (c) Recording of conflicts of interest
      All  disclosures of interests which may lead to a conflict of interest must be  notified to a researcher&rsquo;s supervisor on the appropriate form. This form must  also record the actions taken to avoid or otherwise manage the conflict  situation. The disclosure must be recorded in the Register of Disclosed  Interests for Research and reviewed on an annual basis. The Register of  Disclosed Interests for Research is maintained by the Director, Office of  Research. Information recorded in this Register will be kept in strict  confidence and only disclosed as detailed in the procedures for disclosure of  interests.
      When  conducting research involving the participation of humans, the research team  must disclose any potential conflicts of interest in the recruitment / informed  consent materials. This includes the disclosure of any sources of external  funding for the research.
      Members  of the University&rsquo;s committees are expected to declare any interests at the  beginning of each meeting. Further information is provided in Council Procedure No 1 &ndash; Committees. Top 
      2.6.11 Collaborative research with other institutions
      QUT supports collaborative research with other  institutions, both within Australia and internationally. All agreements for  collaborative research with other institutions will be in writing and must be  formally approved in accordance with the University&rsquo;s Schedule of Authorities  and Delegations (Appendix 3).
      Collaborative research agreements should address  issues relating to: 
        ownership of intellectual property, 
        the management of research findings, including dissemination, confidentiality and the management of research data
        the management of conflicts of interest
        the commercialisation of research outcomes.
Top
	  Related Documents 
	  MOPP B/8.1 Code of Conduct
	    MOPP  D/2.7 Procedures for dealing with allegations of research misconduct
MOPP D/2.8 Management of research data (to be approved)
MOPP D/5.4 Code of Good Practice for  Postgraduate Research Studies and Supervision at QUT
Australian Code  for the Responsible Conduct of Research
National  Statement on Ethical Conduct in Human Research
	  Statement on  Consumer and Community Participation in Health and Medical Research (NHMRC and Consumers' Health Forum  of Australia Inc, 2002)
	  Values and  Ethics - Guidelines for Ethical Conduct in Aboriginal and Torres Strait  Islander Health Research (NHMRC, 2003)
	  Top
  Modification History
      Date
      Sections
      Source
      Details
      07.10.10
       All
       Governance Services
      Policy revised to reflect change from privacy policy to information privacy 
      13.11.09
       All
       University Academic Board
      Revised policy
      16.11.07
       All
       University Academic Board
      Revised Code of Conduct for  Research to ensure compliance with the Australian  Code for the Responsible Conduct of Research; procedures for dealing with  allegations of research misconduct relocated to new section D/2.7 - formerly  D/2.6.8 (endorsed by University Research and Innovation Committee 02.11.07)
      13.08.04
      All
      University Academic Board
      Revised Code of Conduct for Research to incorporate ethical conduct issues and to address postgraduate student research misconduct (endorsed by University Research and Development Committee 23.04.04); rescinded former policy D/6.2 Ethical conduct of research
      19.03.04
      D/2.6.2
      University Academic Board
        Revised policy relating to storage of research data (endorsed by University 
      Research and Development Committee 27.02.04)
      03.09.03
      D/2.6.4
      Council
      Added new moral rights clause
      27.06.03
      D/2.6
      Secretariat Manager
        Added statement re conflicts of interest in accordance with Internal Audit 
      Report on Potential Conflict of Interests - Report No. 2002/40 (April 2003).
      21.09.01
      All
      University Academic Board
      New policy
    Chapter A | Chapter B | Chapter C | Chapter D | Chapter E | Chapter F | Chapter G | Chapter H | Chapter I | Appendices | Protocol for MOPP Policy | Recent Updates
    QUT Home | MOPP Home
    CRICOS No. 00213J
    Privacy | Copyright | Accessibility
    Last modified 28-Oct-2010
    Contact us | Feedback | Disclaimer
