QUT | MOPP | D/3.1 Intellectual property policy 
            QUT&nbsp;Home
          Contact&nbsp;us
          Search
      MOPP Home
      Protocol for MOPP Policy
      Recent Updates
      D/3.1 Intellectual property policy 
Chapters
A - Governance/Organisation
B - Human Resources
C - Learning/Teaching
D - Research/Development
E - Student Administration
F - Information Management
G - Financial Management
H - Physical Facilities
I - International/Community
MOPP Appendices
MOPP Protocol
MOPP Updates
[Print-friendly version]
Contact OfficerDirector, Office of Commercial Services  
Approval Date30/04/2008 
Approval AuthorityCouncil 
Date of Next Review01/12/2010 
3.1.1 Policy principles 
3.1.2 Definitions 
3.1.3 Roles and responsibilities 
3.1.4 Ownership of intellectual property generated by  staff 
3.1.5 Ownership  of copyright  
3.1.6 Intellectual property in QUT  teaching materials 
3.1.7 Intellectual property  generated by students  
3.1.8 Intellectual property created  by visitors   
3.1.9 Commercialisation and  commercialisation revenue 
3.1.10 Moral rights  
3.1.11 Traditional knowledge 
3.1.12 Dispute resolution 
3.1.13 Breaches of the policy
3.1.14 Conflict of interest   
Related Documents
Modification History 
THIS POLICY IS CURRENTLY UNDER REVIEW -
    CONTACT Director, Office of COMMERCIAL SERVICES FOR FURTHER DETAILS.
3.1.1 Policy principles 
QUT is committed to providing an  environment where scholarship and innovation can flourish. QUT encourages its staff and students to  generate and share knowledge that will provide social, cultural and economic  benefits for QUT and for the broader community.  Appropriate management of QUT&rsquo;s intellectual property by a strong  intellectual property protection regime facilitates the best delivery of these  benefits to QUT, its staff and students, and the wider community. 
Benefits of scholarship may be achieved by the  dissemination of knowledge, for example, by academic publications, and QUT  acknowledges that the contribution to knowledge is an important function of  academic endeavour. QUT is committed to  Open Content Licensing principles and provides for their application in some  specific settings (eg teaching grant outputs).  It is important to balance the benefits of optimal access in an open  access context with the need to protect intellectual property in cases  providing commercial opportunity. This  requires a considered approach at an early stage to the likely opportunity for  commercial benefit, for example, where an innovation can only reach and benefit  the broader community after a speculative investment is made by industry  partners, or where the commercial skills of industry partners are necessary. 
QUT  acknowledges that it is accountable to the community for its research and  commercialisation activities, and has a general responsibility to ensure that  these activities have a positive impact on the community. QUT is committed to undertaking  its business operations and commercialisation activities in an ethically and  socially responsible manner.
Top 
3.1.2 Definitions 
&ldquo;commercialisation  expenses&rdquo; means the  expenses incurred by QUT or qutbluebox in the production, development, protection, marketing and  commercialisation of QUT intellectual property and includes: 
  patenting  and other intellectual property protection expenses; 
  legal expenses incurred on the commercialisation project (and not just  on the particular transaction giving rise to the revenue); 
  external professionals&rsquo; expenses incurred on the commercialisation  project (and not just on the particular transaction giving rise to the  revenue), which may include: 
    accountants&rsquo;  expenses for financial and taxation modelling 
    valuers&rsquo; expenses, and 
    other consultants&rsquo; expenses (eg commercialisation consultants); 
  costs associated with the development of the intellectual property  including proof of concept studies, prototype development, marketing studies  and business planning; 
  travel and accommodation expenses incurred on the commercialisation  project (and not just on the particular transaction giving rise to the revenue)  by any person (whether staff member, or an external professional); 
  legal costs and related expenses incurred to commence or defend  infringement proceedings; 
  taxes, duties or any other government levies incurred by QUT or qutbluebox, in respect of the  commercialisation project or revenue;
and does not include: 
  QUT&rsquo;s  and qutbluebox&rsquo;s administration  expenses;
  the cost of undertaking research, unless such research is funded by QUT  or qutbluebox under a proof of concept or other funding mechanism.
The determination of whether particular expenses not listed  above are considered commercialisation expenses will be made by the Deputy Vice-Chancellor  (Research and Commercialisation). 
&ldquo;commercialisation  revenue&rdquo; means the gross cash revenue received by QUT or qutbluebox from the commercialisation of QUT intellectual  property and includes: 
  royalties upon sales by a licensee; 
  royalties from sub-licence fees received from a licensee; 
  lump sum licence fees (except where those fees are required to be used  to subscribe for equity in a start-up company); 
  proceeds from the assignment of QUT intellectual property;
  proceeds of sale of the QUT intellectual property (where a sale occurs); 
  signing fees; 
  milestone payments; 
  minimum annual payments; 
  reimbursement of patent prosecution and maintenance expenses; 
  dividends upon shares owned by QUT or qutbluebox in a start-up company to which it grants a licence; 
  proceeds of sale of shares owned by QUT or qutbluebox in a start-up company to which it grants a licence; 
  damages from infringement proceedings; 
and does not include:
  payments pursuant to a research or consulting agreement.
The determination of whether particular revenue not listed  above is considered commercialisation revenue will be made by the Deputy Vice-Chancellor  (Research and Commercialisation). 
  &ldquo;contributor&rdquo; means the creators, and  any other staff member or student who has substantially contributed to QUT intellectual  property, as determined by the Deputy Vice-Chancellor (Research and  Commercialisation). 
  &ldquo;creator&rdquo; means a staff member or student who creates  QUT intellectual property, and includes: 
  inventors  of patentable subject matter; 
  authors  of works and makers of other subject matter subject to copyright;
  designers  of industrial designs. 
&ldquo;intellectual  property&rdquo; refers to the legal rights which protect intellectual and creative effort  recognised by law and includes: 
  patents  for new or improved products or processes; 
  trade  marks for letters, words, phrases, sounds, smells, shapes, logos, pictures,  aspects of packaging or a combination of these, to distinguish the goods and services  of one trader from those of another;
  designs  for the shape or appearance of manufactured goods; 
  copyright  for original material in literary, artistic, dramatic or musical works, films,  broadcasts, multimedia and computer programs;
  circuit  layout rights for the three-dimensional configuration of electronic circuits in  integrated circuit products or layout designs; 
  plant  breeders&rsquo; rights for new plant varieties; and
  confidentiality  / trade secrets including know-how and other confidential or proprietary  information. 
&ldquo;net  commercialisation revenue&rdquo; means commercialisation revenue less commercialisation expenses in  relation to a particular item or related items of intellectual property. 
  &ldquo;open content  licensing&rdquo; refers to the licensing of a copyright work or other subject matter under a  system which preserves the creator&rsquo;s intellectual property rights whilst giving  permission in advance for the material to be used in certain defined ways,  subject to certain defined conditions. At a minimum, such licences provide the  user with the right to reproduce, copy and communicate the content on  prescribed terms or conditions. Examples of open content licensing systems  include the Creative Commons licences, the GNU Public Document Licence and the  AESharenet licences. 
  &ldquo;QUT&rdquo; means the Queensland  University of Technology established pursuant to the Queensland University of Technology Act 1998. 
&ldquo;qutbluebox&rdquo; means qutbluebox Pty Ltd, a subsidiary company of QUT. 
&ldquo;QUT  intellectual property&rdquo; is intellectual property  created by staff in the course of their QUT employment and intellectual property  assigned by students to QUT. 
  &ldquo;QUT teaching  materials&rdquo; are teaching materials  created by staff in the course of their QUT employment. 
  &ldquo;scholarly works&rdquo; means any  article (refereed or un-refereed), book or book chapter(s), manual, musical  composition or creative writing or any digital or electronic version of these  that contains material written by staff or a student, but does not include work  that is a computer program, teaching materials, or administration material or  work produced at the request of a third party under contract with QUT. 
  &ldquo;staff&rdquo; and &ldquo;staff member&rdquo; means an employee of QUT at the time that person  creates intellectual property and includes academic staff and professional  staff whether employed on a full-time, part-time, sessional or casual basis. 
  &ldquo;staff materials&rdquo; means teaching materials  in which the intellectual property is owned or licensed by staff to QUT. 
  &ldquo;student&rdquo; means a person enrolled as  a student of QUT, or in a course or program of study conducted by or on behalf  of QUT, at the time they create intellectual property. 
  &ldquo;teaching materials&rdquo; are lecture notes, course  notes, slides, presentations, overheads, course assignments, examination  papers, answer guidelines, tutorial questions, handbooks, spreadsheets, course  outlines, course reading lists, computer programs solely used for teaching  purposes, drawings and diagrams, maps, photographs, broadcasts, films and all other  materials created, developed, used or supplied for the purpose of learning and  teaching at QUT. 
  &ldquo;visitor&rdquo; means any person other than a staff member or student who takes part in  any research or scholarly activity at QUT pursuant to which that person creates  intellectual property, and includes a person who holds an adjunct, honorary,  voluntary or other similar appointment at QUT.Top 
3.1.3 Roles and responsibilities
All staff 
All staff generating intellectual property in the  course of their QUT employment have an obligation to comply with the specific  requirements of this policy. In view of  the ownership arrangements outlined in section 3.1.4 below, staff must act in a  manner which is consistent with QUT&rsquo;s ownership of intellectual property generated  in the course of employment. Creators  who are staff members are expected to assist or facilitate the exploitation of  intellectual property which they have been involved in generating, where  avenues for exploitation or commercialisation are identified by or on behalf of  QUT.
Executive deans,  heads of division and institute directors 
  Executive deans, heads of division  or institute directors, as the line managers of creators, have a role in  promoting this policy to staff and students and in making determinations on the  use of any commercialisation returns to the faculty, division or institute in  accordance with QUT policies and which use is normally subject to the  Vice-Chancellor&rsquo;s approval.
Deputy Vice-Chancellor (Research and  Commercialisation) 
  The Deputy Vice-Chancellor (Research and  Commercialisation) has a general role in developing QUT&rsquo;s research capacity and  ensuring that research innovations with commercial relevance are exploited to  their full potential. As part of this  role, the Deputy Vice-Chancellor (Research and Commercialisation) is  responsible for administering this policy, for the formulation and approval of  procedures and protocols to implement this policy, and for the management of  disputes arising under this policy. 
  qutbluebox Pty Ltd 
  qutbluebox is a company which has the  specific function of protecting and commercialising intellectual property  (other than teaching materials) developed at QUT and supporting creators in the  recognition and identification of commercialisable intellectual property. qutbluebox reports annually to the  Deputy Vice-Chancellor (Research and Commercialisation) on matters relating to  the management and commercialisation of QUT intellectual property. 
  Office of Commercial Services 
  The Office of Commercial Services deals with  contract research, consultancies, continuing professional education,  international projects and cooperative research centres. The Office of Commercial Services refers  transactions to qutbluebox when  commercialisation or related risks to QUT need to be considered. 
  Office of Research 
  The Office of Research deals with research grants,  data management and research ethics, and refers transactions to qutbluebox when commercialisation or  related risks to QUT need to be considered. 
  Alumni and Development Office 
  The Alumni and Development Office identifies and facilitates  the management of relationships between QUT and the external community, and  refers transactions to qutbluebox  when commercialisation or related risks to QUT need to be considered. 
Top 
3.1.4 Ownership of intellectual property generated by  staff
 In accordance with general law principles, QUT as  an employer is the owner of intellectual property created by staff members in  the course of their employment. QUT&rsquo;s ownership of QUT intellectual property  applies to both academic and professional staff. 
This ownership exists as a matter of law, and does  not require any further documentation from staff members. However, staff may be  required to formally sign documents to more fully record QUT&rsquo;s ownership of QUT  intellectual property, for example, to enable patent applications to be made. 
QUT does not own intellectual property created by  staff members outside the course of their employment. 
Staff bringing existing intellectual property to  QUT  
Staff who bring existing intellectual property to  QUT to be used in the course of their duties or otherwise, need to provide  evidence of ownership when disclosing intellectual property with  commercialisation potential to QUT and qutbluebox. This ensures the staff member&rsquo;s ownership  and contribution to the scope of knowledge held at QUT is recognised. Staff should provide:
   an  inventory of that intellectual property, and 
   all  documents relating to the ownership of the intellectual property, including any  contracts, licensing agreements or other relevant documents. 
 Top 
3.1.5 Ownership  of copyright
 In accordance with general law principles noted in  section 3.1.4 above, QUT as an employer is the owner of copyright where the  work is created by staff members in the course of their employment. QUT&rsquo;s  ownership of copyright applies to both academic and professional staff. 
 Assignment of  scholarly works
 Provided that QUT does not have  contractual obligations to a third party which would prevent QUT effecting such  an assignment, QUT assigns the right to publish scholarly works to the creator(s)  of that work. The assignment is subject  to a perpetual, irrevocable, worldwide, royalty-free, non-exclusive licence in  favour of QUT to allow QUT to use that work for teaching, research and  commercialisation purposes and to reproduce and communicate that  work online for non-commercial purposes via QUT's open access digital  repository.
 If required, QUT will sign  documents to more fully record the staff member&rsquo;s ownership of the right of  publication of the copyright in a scholarly work and QUT&rsquo;s non-exclusive  licence to that work. 
 The &ldquo;right to publish&rdquo; scholarly works in this  section 3.1.5 means the right to publish a work as referred to in the Copyright Act 1968 (Cwth).
 The version of the scholarly  work that QUT can make available via the digital repository may be the  published version or the final post-peer review manuscript version. QUT  will agree to third party publisher-requested embargoes of 12 months or  less (from date of publication by the third party publisher) on the publication  of the manuscript via the digital repository.
 Any subsequent publication agreement or  assignment of the right to publish the scholarly work entered into by the creator will  be subject to the terms of the pre-existing non-exclusive licence referred to  in this section 3.1.5. 
 Top 
3.1.6 Intellectual property in QUT  teaching materials
In line with section 3.1.4 above, QUT  owns the intellectual property in QUT teaching materials. This ensures the University has the  unrestricted ability to use QUT teaching materials for its teaching, research  and training responsibilities. 
Non-exclusive licence  
  QUT grants to creators a perpetual,  worldwide, non-exclusive, royalty-free licence to use QUT teaching materials to  fulfil their teaching, research and training responsibilities at QUT. This  licence does not include any use for commercial purposes nor does it involve a  transfer of ownership of QUT intellectual property. 
  In the absence of an obligation of  confidentiality or separate legal constraint, QUT recognises that staff may  personally use knowledge they have developed in the course of their employment  at QUT, once that employment ceases.  That right does not extend to the reproduction of QUT teaching materials. 
  Staff materials  
QUT&rsquo;s access to staff materials is  necessary to enable the University to deliver the courses in which staff materials  are used. This access continues after a  staff member ceases to be employed at QUT.  If staff materials are used in the course of the staff member&rsquo;s  employment at QUT, the staff member must grant a perpetual, worldwide,  royalty-free, non-exclusive licence to QUT to use staff materials for all  purposes connected with delivery of courses and teaching programs by QUT.  Top 
3.1.7 Intellectual property  generated by students
 In accordance with general law principles, students personally own the intellectual property that they  generate. 
   However, in order to participate, or  continue to participate, in certain projects students may need to assign to QUT  their interest in the intellectual property, in particular, where: 
   the project is  externally funded, or 
   the project has  clear commercialisation potential or objectives. 
   It is intended that requests for students  to assign their intellectual property will be done only where necessary to  enable QUT to meet its legal obligations to industry partners, or to achieve the  objective of deriving appropriate benefits from innovation at QUT by  commercialising intellectual property. 
   The terms of any assignment of intellectual  property by a student will be agreed with the student. In general the student will: 
   share in net  commercialisation revenues along with all other contributors; 
   retain copyright in  the student&rsquo;s thesis; 
   not be  unreasonably impeded in submitting a thesis for examination and completing  requirements for the award of a degree;
   observe  obligations of confidentiality in relation to the project. 
Responsibility for identifying  circumstances when the assignment of student intellectual property may be  appropriate rests with the research thesis supervisor and the relevant executive  dean or institute director (or delegate). 
 To protect student interests, and in  recognition of the different considerations which apply to student intellectual  property, a student  intellectual property protocol, approved by the Deputy  Vice-Chancellor (Research and Commercialisation), sets out the mechanisms to  implement these principles. 
 Top 
3.1.8 Intellectual property created  by visitors
 Ownership and rights relating to  intellectual property brought to QUT by a visitor must be resolved before any  activity commences at QUT. This may  necessitate negotiation between QUT and the owner of the intellectual  property. 
 Ownership and rights relating to intellectual property created during a  visitor's work with QUT must be resolved through negotiation between QUT and the  visitor or other third parties such as the visitor&rsquo;s employer. Any agreement  that arises following such negotiations must be finalised before the visit or  appointment commences at QUT.
Top 
3.1.9 Commercialisation and  commercialisation revenue
 Commercialisation  of QUT teaching materials
 Any commercialisation of QUT teaching materials  will be done by QUT through the Office of Commercial Services as determined by  the Deputy Vice-Chancellor (Research and Commercialisation) in consultation  with the Deputy Vice-Chancellor (Academic) and the relevant executive dean. Any distribution to contributors from net  commercialisation revenue received from commercialisation of teaching materials  will be determined by the Deputy Vice-Chancellor (Research and  Commercialisation) in consultation with the Deputy Vice-Chancellor (Academic)  and the relevant executive dean. 
Commercialisation of intellectual property other than QUT teaching  materials
   The commercialisation of QUT  intellectual property (other than teaching materials) will be pursued through qutbluebox as licensor or commercialising entity. 
  Contributors are expected to comply  with QUT&rsquo;s commercialisation  protocol,  approved by the Deputy Vice-Chancellor (Research and Commercialisation). 
 In particular, and without limiting the matters to be complied with, QUT  expects  creators to:
     Identify intellectual property that may have  commercialisation prospects. 
   Disclose that identified intellectual property via  forms available on the qutbluebox website.
   Confer with qutbluebox on the timing of publications to ensure that  publication and intellectual property protection may be achieved without either  hindering the other.
   Assist qutbluebox in the assessment, management, protection, and commercialisation  of intellectual property.
   Assist qutbluebox in inventorship and contributor determinations.
   Ensure that qutbluebox is engaged in any  process of application for patents.
   Ensure that qutbluebox is involved in the  engagement of any patent attorneys.
   Work with patent attorneys engaged by qutbluebox, including preparing parts  or drafts of patent specifications.
   Assist qutbluebox  in preparing other documents that will assist in the protection and  commercialisation of intellectual property including technical descriptions and  evaluations, and market descriptions and evaluations.
   Sign documents required in the patent  application process within an agreed timeframe.
    Answer questions and provide information  requested by qutbluebox within  an agreed timeframe. 
   Promptly notify qutbluebox when approached by a possible commercial partner. 
    Assist qutbluebox in its negotiations with commercial partners. 
   Include qutbluebox in any commercial discussions relating to intellectual  property. 
   Ensure that qutbluebox is consulted about, and agrees to, the signing of any  contracts or commitments binding upon QUT or qutbluebox. 
   Seek qutbluebox  approval for any media statements regarding intellectual property with  commercial potential.
 As a general rule, net commercialisation  revenue (excluding that derived from the commercialisation of teaching materials)  will be distributed in the following manner:
   one third to all the contributors between them;
   one third to the contributors&rsquo; faculty, division or  institute for its use as the executive dean, head of division or institute director  determines, subject to the approval of the Vice-Chancellor; and
   one third to qutbluebox.
 In exceptional circumstances, QUT has  the discretion to increase the amount available for distribution amongst all  contributors above one third, to a maximum of one half.
 The discretion to increase distributions to particular  contributor(s) will be exercised with agreement of the Deputy Vice-Chancellor  (Research and Commercialisation) and the Deputy Vice-Chancellor (Academic),  upon recommendation of qutbluebox.  Consideration will be given, amongst all other relevant matters, to:
   the extent to which the contributor(s) have complied with the  expectations upon the staff and students contained in the commercialisation protocol;
   the agreement by the contributor(s) to contribute to the  commercialisation process beyond the expectations upon the contributor(s)  contained in this policy and subject to this contribution being approved by the  relevant executive dean;
   an assessment by qutbluebox as to the need and desirability for the  contributor(s) to continue to be involved in the commercialisation process;
   the desire or requirement by the third party that the contributor(s)  remain involved in the commercialisation process; and
   the adherence by the contributor(s) to arrangements requiring the  contributor(s)&rsquo; continued involvement in the commercialisation process, if any. 
 It follows that this discretion to increase  distributions to any particular contributor cannot be prematurely exercised at  the time of, for example, lodging a patent application, and can only be most  appropriately exercised after the criteria in the paragraphs above can be assessed.
 In these exceptional cases, the  distribution of net commercialisation revenue shall be:
   up to one half among  the contributor(s);   
   of the remainder: 
       one half to the contributors&rsquo; faculty, division or institute  for its use as the executive dean, head of division or institute director  determines, subject to the approval of the Vice-Chancellor; and 
     one half to qutbluebox. 
 Net commercialisation revenues  will be distributed to contributors according to the proportionate contribution  made by them to the intellectual property.  If necessary, for instance, in cases of uncertainty or if there is  dispute between contributors, the Deputy Vice-Chancellor (Research and  Commercialisation) determines proportionate contributions for the purposes of  net revenue distribution to contributors. 
 Where creators or contributors  are staff employed by a faculty, the distribution of net commercialisation  revenue is made to the employing faculty at the time that the intellectual  property was developed, even though the creator or contributor was also a  member of an institute at that time. In  the case where there are several contributors who are employed by different  organisational areas, distribution to relevant faculties, divisions or  institutes will be made in the same proportions as apply to contributors. At its discretion, the faculty, division or  institute may apply the commercialisation revenue to funding further research  by the creators / contributors. 
 Subject to any existing agreements  regarding revenue distributions, this policy will apply in relation to all net commercialisation  revenue received by QUT or qutbluebox  after this policy comes into effect, including under agreements made before  this policy comes into effect. Distribution to a contributor under this  policy shall not be affected by the death, resignation or retirement of the  contributor. 
 A commercialisation revenue protocol,  approved by the Deputy Vice-Chancellor (Research and Commercialisation), sets  out the mechanisms to implement these principles. 
 Top 
3.1.10 Moral rights
 Moral  rights has the meaning specified in the Copyright  Act 1968 (Cwth). In summary,  moral rights apply to all works, except films, in existence on 21 December 2000 and which  are still protected by copyright, and to all works including films created  after that date. 
 The moral rights of the creator of  works are: 
   the  right of attribution of authorship in respect of the work; 
   the  right not to have authorship of the work falsely attributed; and 
   the  right of integrity of authorship in respect of the work. 
 In summary: 
   the  right of attribution is a right to be identified as the author of a work; 
   false  attribution means to associate someone else's name with a work in a way that  falsely implies that person is the author of the work; and 
   the  right of integrity of authorship is the right not to have the work subjected to  derogatory treatment, such as the doing of anything that results in a material  distortion, mutilation of, or alteration to, the work that is prejudicial to  the author's honour or reputation. 
QUT shall  take reasonable steps to respect moral rights and to endeavour to ensure that  others respect moral rights. However,  QUT is not obliged to take action if the moral rights of authors are not exercised.
 QUT recognises that staff and students may retain moral rights in copyright  works owned by QUT and may, on appropriate occasions, ask creators to consent  to certain uses of their work, where moral rights may be affected. 
 Top 
3.1.11 Traditional knowledge
Where the creation of QUT intellectual property involves the traditional interests or property of Indigenous peoples and/or the use of traditional knowledge, QUT will take all reasonable steps to consult with the relevant Indigenous groups to ensure that any decisions taken on the protection, development and commercialisation of that intellectual property conforms with the relevant Indigenous protocols and ethical guidelines.
 Top 
3.1.12 Dispute resolution 
Determinations on matters relating to this  policy and associated protocols are made by the Deputy Vice-Chancellor  (Research and Commercialisation). 
To the extent of any inconsistency between an  associated protocol and this policy, this policy will prevail.
A person who does not agree with a  determination, action or inaction on a matter relating to this policy and  associated protocols must in the first instance notify the Deputy  Vice-Chancellor (Research and Commercialisation) in writing of the  dispute. The Deputy Vice-Chancellor  (Research and Commercialisation) will respond to that notice promptly. 
  If the concerned person is  dissatisfied with the reply (or if the reply is not timely) the person should  advise the Vice-Chancellor in writing of the unresolved dispute. 
The Vice-Chancellor or the Vice-Chancellor&rsquo;s nominee shall meet  with the person and the Deputy Vice-Chancellor (Research and Commercialisation) within five  working days from the date of being advised in writing of the ongoing  dispute. Prior to the meeting, the Vice-Chancellor  shall advise the person of their right to be accompanied by a staff  representative at that meeting. The staff representative excludes a person who  is currently practising as a solicitor or barrister.
  The Vice-Chancellor or the  Vice-Chancellor&rsquo;s nominee may seek assistance in investigating a dispute, as  appropriate. That advice may be sought from  qutbluebox on matters relating  to exploitation or commercialisation of QUT intellectual property or may  determine it is appropriate to appoint a panel of up to three people, to report  on matters raised by the dispute. This  panel will be composed of such persons, from within and external to QUT, who by  reason of their collective skills and expertise are able to consider the  specific issue raised, and provide advice to the Vice-Chancellor or his or her  nominee, as applicable. 
  The Vice-Chancellor shall respond to  the written notice of dispute within 30 days of receipt of the notice or shall inform  the person of an alternative timeline for resolution. The final response of the Vice-Chancellor to  the written notice of dispute shall conclude the matter. 
Top 
3.1.13 Breaches of the policy
Any breach of this policy or associated protocols  by a staff member may be subject to disciplinary action in accordance with QUT&rsquo;s  provisions on disciplinary action for misconduct and serious misconduct (see B/8.4 and B/8.5 ).
Top 
3.1.14 Conflict of interest
The management of any  potential conflict of interest shall be undertaken in accordance with QUT&rsquo;s  Code of Conduct (see B/8.1 ).
Top 
Related Documents
MOPP Appendix 3 Schedule of Authorities and Delegations
MOPP B/8.1  Code of Conduct
MOPP D/2.6 QUT  Code of Conduct for Research
MOPP D/5.4  Code of Good Practice for Postgraduate Research Studies and Supervision at QUT
 MOPP D/7.1  Policy on outside work - academic staff
MOPP A/8.3  QUT Reconciliation Statement
    Circuit  Layouts Act 1989 (Cwth)
Copyright Act  1968 (Cwth)
Designs Act  1906 (Cwth)
Patents Act  1990 (Cwth)
Plant  Breeder's Rights Act 1994 (Cwth)
Trade Marks  Act 1995 (Cwth)
Intellectual property protocols
Top 
Modification History 
Date
Sections
Source
Details
  30.04.08 
  All 
  Council 
  Revised    policy consistent with QUT&rsquo;s revised commercialisation arrangements (endorsed    by Planning and Resources Committee 16.04.08); policy renumbered to D/3.1 (formerly    D/8.1)
  06.12.04 
D/8.1.6,    D/8.1.7 (of former policy D/8.1)
Vice-Chancellor 
Revised committee title - Intellectual    Property Policy Committee (formerly Intellectual Property Committee) 
  10.12.03 
D/8.1.7 (of former policy D/8.1)
Council 
Authorised Vice-Chancellor, Registrar    and Deputy Vice-Chancellor (Research and Commercialisation) to sign formal    documentation relating to intellectual property rights of QUT. 
  03.09.03 
All 
Council 
Approved new policy 
Top 
    Chapter A | Chapter B | Chapter C | Chapter D | Chapter E | Chapter F | Chapter G | Chapter H | Chapter I | Appendices | Protocol for MOPP Policy | Recent Updates
    QUT Home | MOPP Home
    CRICOS No. 00213J
    Privacy | Copyright | Accessibility
    Last modified 12-May-2010
    Contact us | Feedback | Disclaimer
