QUT | MOPP | D/4.2 Externally funded centres (Tier 2)
            QUT&nbsp;Home
          Contact&nbsp;us
          Search
      MOPP Home
      Protocol for MOPP Policy
      Recent Updates
      D/4.2 Externally funded centres (Tier 2)
Chapters
A - Governance/Organisation
B - Human Resources
C - Learning/Teaching
D - Research/Development
E - Student Administration
F - Information Management
G - Financial Management
H - Physical Facilities
I - International/Community
MOPP Appendices
MOPP Protocol
MOPP Updates
[Print-friendly version]
Contact OfficerDirector, Office of Research 
Approval Date27/03/2009 
Approval AuthorityUniversity Academic Board 
Date of Next Review01/04/2012 
4.2.1 Policy on externally funded centres 
4.2.2 Types of externally funded centres 
4.2.3 Formation of externally funded centres arising from competition for funding 
4.2.4 Formation of externally funded centres arising from partnership with an external organisation 
4.2.5 Management of QUT collaborative centres 
4.2.6 QUT reporting for externally funded centres
Related Documents
  Modification History 
4.2.1 Policy on externally funded centres 
Externally funded centres are established to give form to the activities arising from collaboration
  with other organisations. Some are established to pursue a program for which the University has had
  to compete for funding, and some are established to encapsulate partnerships which the University has
developed. These centres form the second tier of research structures within the University (see 
D/1.2
The strategic priority for QUT of participation in externally funded centres is engagement of its
  researchers with external collaborators, in long-term arrangements which support research and development
  and graduate education activities that achieve outcomes of international and national economic and
  social significance.
Top 
4.2.2 Types of externally funded centres 
A current list of externally funded centres (Tier 2) is available from the 
QUT
website
QUT establishes or participates in the following types of centres formed in response to funding by
  external bodies:
a) Cooperative Research Centres (CRCs)
QUT is active in the Australian Government funded Cooperative Research Centre (CRC) program both
  as a CRC lead site, and as a research node within CRCs for which other institutions are the lead site.
  Under government policy, CRCs are strongly focussed on technology transfer and commercialisation. External
  structures are always formed to facilitate this program in accordance with the CRC program guidelines.
b) Centres of Excellence (COEs)
Externally funded centres of excellence (COE), such as those supported by the Australian Research
  Council, involve a significant collaboration which allows the complementary research resources of QUT,
  other universities, publicly funded research institutes and external stakeholders (business, industry,
  not-for-profit) to be concentrated to support research and research training in institutional, state
  and national priority areas. Centres of excellence are usually focussed more towards the discovery
  and upstream development end of the research and development spectrum. In addition to significant cash
  and in-kind contributions from QUT as host institution, COEs would normally be characterised by additional
  financial support from a variety of sources.
c) Large Research Consortia (LRCs)
QUT participates in other large research consortia (LRC) in the University's areas of research strength,
  which typically involve:
collaborative research with multiple academic and/or industry participants;
significant QUT cash investment, typically in the vicinity of $50,000 annual funds
    for at least 3 years;
staff time of at least 2 equivalent full-time lecturers per annum;
governance arrangements involving significant majority external representation;
a need to bid into the consortium's granting rounds in order to “recoup” research
    funds and scholarships;
complex intellectual property negotiations and arrangements.
d) QUT
collaborative centres
QUT forms QUT collaborative centres within the University in conjunction with external collaborators
  especially to pursue major research goals, over an extended period, usually not less than three years.
A QUT collaborative centre's focus is usually research and research training of a national and/or
  international standard, which receives a significant level of funding from industry sources.
A case may be made for a non-research focussed QUT collaborative centre in particular circumstances.
  In such cases the Deputy Vice-Chancellor (Academic) and the Deputy-Vice Chancellor (Research and Commercialisation)
  will consult in relation to advising the Vice-Chancellor whether the particular initiative should progress
through University Research and Innovation Committee, University Teaching and Learning Committee, or both.
Top 
4.2.3 Formation of externally funded centres arising from competition for funding 
Involvement of QUT staff in any bid leading to establishment of an externally funded centre (Tier
  2), including those which are not led by QUT, needs the approval of the Deputy Vice-Chancellor (Research
  and Commercialisation). Alignment with faculty and institute research plans, or other top level plans
  where appropriate, and faculty and institute funding commitment, will be significant factors in securing
  support for a bid. Multi-faculty involvement is strongly encouraged. The Division of Research and Commercialisation
  will support and facilitate approved bids for all Tier 2 centres.
University Research and Innovation Committee will be provided with the opportunity to comment at all
  stages of bid approval and formation processes for these centres. The Deputy Vice-Chancellor (Research
  and Commercialisation) reserves the right to determine QUT's interests and preferred negotiating stance
  at all times.
For externally funded centres arising from competition for funding through an external application
  and selection process (CRCs, COEs and LRCs), the arrangements for establishment, governance, management
  and operation (including reporting and review) accord with the requirements of the external funding
  program and/or the determinations of the particular governing board.
The 
  Office of Research web site
provides
  the following:
CRC, COE, LRC process for securing institutional support;
CRC, COE, LRC expression of interest form;
CRC, COE, LRC modified QUT business case;
CRC, COE, LRC best practice guide for the development and preparation of bids.
Top 
4.2.4 Formation of externally funded centres arising from partnership with an external organisation 
For externally funded centres involving negotiation with a funding partner rather than a bidding process,
  early discussions with the Deputy Vice-Chancellor (Research and Commercialisation) must involve the
  external funding partner. This will usually lead to formation of a QUT collaborative centre. Following
  consultation and approval to present a formal case for establishment of a QUT collaborative centre,
  the proposal will be assessed by University Research and Innovation Committee for recommendation to
  University Academic Board, which recommends to Council.
University Research and Innovation Committee will consider whether the following elements have been
  satisfied when assessing an application for QUT collaborative centre status:
the focus and scope of the centre's activities is of sufficient magnitude and aligns
      to the University's strategic ambitions;
the external financial support is appropriate to QUT collaborative centre status;
the heads of school and executive deans of faculty most closely related to the proposed
      area of the centre have identified and agreed to the source and level of matching support from
    the University;
the potential for a significant level of external funding from a recognised national
      / international funding scheme on the basis of competition is well established;
the research performance is competitive within the University.
A proposal for a QUT collaborative centre (Tier 2) should address the criteria and complete the proforma
  available from the 
  Office of Research website. Applications for QUT collaborative centre status are considered in accordance with the
  provisions relating to selection criteria and external referees contained in University policy for
  faculty research centres (see 
D/4.3.2 to
  D/4.3.4
). In addition to the faculty research centre (Tier 3) procedures, University
  Research and Innovation Committee shall constitute a selection panel to assess and make recommendations
  on QUT collaborative centre applications. The selection panel will forward a recommendation to University
  Research and Innovation Committee to recommend to award, not award, or award with conditions, QUT collaborative
centre status.
Top 
4.2.5 Management of QUT collaborative centres 
QUT collaborative centres are managed according to the provisions of University policy for faculty
  research centres (see 
D/4.3.5 to D/4.3.12
  with the exceptions specified below.
Reporting
Where QUT collaborative centres are subject to external annual reporting by the principal funding
  body, the centre must provide to the Deputy Vice-Chancellor (Research and Commercialisation) a copy
  of its external annual report at the same time as externally required. This documentation may be submitted
  in lieu of the annual report proforma referred to in University policy for faculty research centres
  (see 
D/4.3.7
Funding
Matching funding from QUT is often a requirement of successful external collaborations. However, any
  commitment of QUT resources to such a collaborative arrangement must be determined internally prior
  to an arrangement being reached with the external body. Such commitment to funding may involve the
  approval of the Vice-Chancellor, the executive dean of faculty and/or the Deputy Vice-Chancellor (Research
  and Commercialisation).
Review
Where QUT collaborative centres are subject to external review by the principal funding body, the
  centre must provide to the Deputy Vice-Chancellor (Research and Commercialisation) a copy of its review
  submission and principal funding body's findings. This documentation should be submitted to University
  Research and Innovation Committee, in lieu of a QUT review submission (see 
D/4.3.9
  at the same time as externally required.
The review may recommend that the centre be disbanded if it is deemed not to be achieving its objectives.
  As one of the objectives of these centres is collaboration with an external sponsor, QUT collaborative
  centre status would normally cease upon withdrawal, or on completion, of sponsorship by the external
  body.
Requests for a change of title should also include endorsement of the external collaborating body.
Reviews of non-research focussed QUT collaborative centres are considered through the same process,
  but are not subject to the research component of the review process.
Top 
4.2.6 QUT reporting for externally funded centres 
The Deputy Vice-Chancellor (Research and Commercialisation) provides an annual summary level report
  to Council on all externally funded centres (Tier 2), through University Research and Innovation Committee
  and University Academic Board.Top 
Related Documents
MOPP D/1.2  Policy on research structures
Top 
Modification History 
Date
Sections
Source
Details
   27.03.09
   All
   University Academic Board
  Policy reviewed &ndash; no change required
28.11.05
All
Deputy Chair, University Academic Board
Revised policy consistent with new four-tier research structure (noted by University Academic
        Board 01.12.05; endorsed by University Research and Innovation Committee 27.10.05)
16.11.01
All
University Academic Board
New centres policy (effective immediately)
Top 
    Chapter A | Chapter B | Chapter C | Chapter D | Chapter E | Chapter F | Chapter G | Chapter H | Chapter I | Appendices | Protocol for MOPP Policy | Recent Updates
    QUT Home | MOPP Home
    CRICOS No. 00213J
    Privacy | Copyright | Accessibility
    Last modified 12-May-2010
    Contact us | Feedback | Disclaimer
