QUT | MOPP | D/4.3 Faculty research centres (Tier 3)
            QUT&nbsp;Home
          Contact&nbsp;us
          Search
      MOPP Home
      Protocol for MOPP Policy
      Recent Updates
      D/4.3 Faculty research centres (Tier 3)
Chapters
A - Governance/Organisation
B - Human Resources
C - Learning/Teaching
D - Research/Development
E - Student Administration
F - Information Management
G - Financial Management
H - Physical Facilities
I - International/Community
MOPP Appendices
MOPP Protocol
MOPP Updates
[Print-friendly version]
Contact OfficerDirector, Office of Research 
Approval Date27/03/2009 
Approval AuthorityUniversity Academic Board 
Date of Next Review01/04/2012 
4.3.1 Policy on faculty research centres 
4.3.2 Awarding of status 
4.3.3 Selection criteria 
4.3.4 Application procedure 
4.3.5 Powers 
4.3.6 Tier 3 Research centre structures 
4.3.7 Reporting 
4.3.8 Funding 
4.3.9 Review process 
4.3.10 Changes to name, mission, objectives or structure 
4.3.11 Closure of a Tier 3 research centre 
4.3.12 Property 
Modification History 
4.3.1 Policy on faculty research centres 
Research centres are established in faculties to provide a focus for research consistent with the
  strategic plan for research management of those faculties involved and to strengthen QUT's reputation
  for high quality and high impact research. These centres form the third tier of research structures
  within the University (see 
D/1.2
Tier 3 research centres should have as their primary focus the conduct of research, commercial research,
  and research training, although they may also engage in consulting activities, continuing education,
  and the provision of other services to the general community related to, or deriving from, their research
  activities.
Tier 3 research centres normally contain a minimum of three research programs. Tier 3 research centres
  may be school-based, but are usually established in faculties which aim to provide higher levels of
  research collaboration between schools. Tier 3 research centres which draw their membership from more
  than one faculty are encouraged. Tier 3 research centres may evolve into externally funded centres
  (Tier 2) (see 
D/4.2
Institutes do not establish Tier 3 centres; however, relevant institutes should be consulted by faculties
  seeking to establish Tier 3 centres. (Note: Institutes may initiate proposals for Tier 2 centres.)
In addition to Tier 3 research centres based in faculties, a faculty or institute may recognise and
  recommend smaller groupings of focused research activity or emerging research strengths. See 
D/4.4
for
  further details relating to these research groupings.
Top 
4.3.2 Awarding of status 
Proposals to form Tier 3 research centres should be discussed at an early stage with the Deputy Vice-Chancellor
  (Research and Commercialisation) and relevant institute directors . The proposal will be assessed by
  University Research and Innovation Committee for recommendation to University Academic Board, which
  recommends to Council.
Those proposing formation of a Tier 3 research centre must prepare a proposal including the application
  proforma available on the 
Office
  of Research
web site, and addressing the selection criteria in D/4.3.3 below.
Top 
4.3.3 Selection criteria 
Applications for Tier 3 research centre status will be assessed on merit according to the following
  guidelines:
Principally, the degree to which the proposed centre has the capacity and potential to undertake
    research and postgraduate training, which is strategically significant as measured against national
    and state research priorities, as well as competitive and comparable with international performance
    standards for the area, and contributes to the University's positioning within its total research
    strategy.
Evidence of the centre's international standing in research and postgraduate training will be based
    on external referees' comments and the most recent ratings within the relevant Commonwealth research
    quality assessment frameworks eg Research Quality Framework.
The proposed centre's existing and projected contribution to QUT's performance in Commonwealth
    research assessment frameworks (eg IGS, RTS, RQF) must be substantial, with due consideration of
    different benchmarks that apply to disciplinary fields The performance indicators will include the
    quality and quantity of externally funded research, commercial R 
D and consultancy income,
    publications, and research higher degree load and completions.
The extent to which the centre's research focus and activities are complemented by the teaching
    programs at postgraduate level. For example, a Tier 3 research centre would normally have a minimum
    of 15 PhD and masters by research students (approximately 10 EFTSL) associated with it, and an average
    of four completions per annum over three years. Particular emphasis will be given to the centre's achievements
    and strategies to enhance the quality of postgraduate research training with particular reference
    to research higher degree load, completions, scholarships, and supervision.
The quality and impact of the research outputs of the centre including international comparisons.
Where a proposed Tier 3 research centre supports the faculty's strategic plan but does not currently
  satisfy these guidelines, the faculty may make a recommendation for consideration for Tier 3 research
  centre status based on the strategic significance of the proposed centre to the faculty's management
  of research performance.
Top 
4.3.4 Application procedure 
Faculties  would normally generate a recommendation for Tier 3 research centre status (normally by 1 June for commencement early in the following  calendar year).
By mid-July annually, University Research and Innovation Committee shall assess faculty recommendations
  on the establishment of Tier 3 research centres.
University Research and Innovation Committee may recommend to award, not award, or award with conditions,
  Tier 3 research centre status.
Top 
4.3.5 Powers 
Tier 3 research centres shall have the power, subject to reporting procedures, to initiate applications
  for research grants in accordance with normal University procedures, seek support from industry, commerce
  and the community, and train postgraduate students.
Tier 3 research centres can initiate, but cannot in their own right authorise:
appointment of staff,
entering into agreements which bind QUT,
higher degree programs, or
dealing with any property of QUT.
Top 
4.3.6 Tier 3 Research centre structures 
Each Tier 3 research centre shall have a director and an appropriate management and governance structure.
For details of the appointment, responsibilities and review of centre directors see 
D/4.5
Cross-faculty centres may have a physical location
  in one or more of the participating faculties and would report, through a nominated faculty, by agreement
  between the relevant executive deans of faculty.
Top 
4.3.7 Reporting 
Tier 3 research centres report through the centre director to the executive dean of faculty or nominee
  on day-to-day management and academic activities.
Tier 3 research centres must submit to the Deputy Vice-Chancellor (Research and Commercialisation)
  an annual report in accordance with the reporting processes established by the faculty. An annual report
  proforma is available from the 
Office
  of Research
web page.
The Deputy Vice-Chancellor (Research and Commercialisation) will forward a report on issues arising
  from the annual report and any recommendations to University Research and Innovation Committee for
  consideration and forwarding, as appropriate, to University Academic Board.
Top 
4.3.8 Funding 
Faculties are responsible for Tier 3 centre funding. Members of Tier 3 research centres will also
  be eligible to apply for additional funding, awarded competitively from the University Research Budget,
  for particular research projects.
Normally, the majority of earned income for Tier 3 research centres will be from sources external
  to QUT
Top 
4.3.9 Review process 
Tier 3 research centres will be reviewed by the Deputy Vice-Chancellor (Research and Commercialisation)
  every five years with a view to their continuing status.
Normally, reviews are undertaken by July in the review year so that the outcome of the review can
  be incorporated into budgetary and other policy decisions.
A review submission proforma is available on the 
Office
      of Research
web page.
Top 
4.3.10 Changes to name, mission, objectives or structure 
Centres can seek to change their title, mission, objectives or structure within the context of their
  annual reporting cycle.
Applications by Tier 3 research centres for a change of title are considered by the executive dean
  of faculty, who recommends to University Research and Innovation Committee, which resolves whether
  to approve the proposal.
Top 
4.3.11 Closure of a Tier 3 research centre 
Just as the creation of a Tier 3 research centre is the outcome of a faculty recommendation to University
  Research and Innovation Committee, so too the recommendation to wind up a centre is normally initiated
  by the faculty, either following a review, or at a time judged appropriate by the faculty. A centre
  may be wound up when the purpose for which it was established has been fulfilled or is no longer a
  strategic priority for the faculty. A centre which does not meet the guidelines established by the
  University would normally be closed.
Council, on  the recommendation of the faculty, through University Research and Innovation  Committee and University Academic Board, may close a Tier 3 research centre when:
   the centre has ceased to be active for a period of one year;
   the centre is no longer fulfilling its objectives (normally to be determined within
    the context of a centre's annual reporting cycle); or
   the centre's contribution to the University's research quality profile and external
    earnings is substantially lower than the benchmark applied at the point of its establishment.
Top 
4.3.12 Property 
All equipment and consumables purchased with the funds of a Tier 3 research centre are the property
  of QUT and are under the control of the executive dean of faculty, except in cases where specific arrangements
  to the contrary have been formally agreed by all parties in accordance with relevant QUT policy. If
  more than one faculty is a partner in the operation of a centre, the property will be apportioned among
  the respective faculties by mutual agreement as stated in writing at the time of purchase. This does
  not preclude the subsequent authorised sale and transfer of physical assets to any incorporated body
  (into which the centre may evolve).
If a Tier 3 research centre seeks to become an established entity independent of QUT, all parties
  may agree upon the transfer of ownership of relevant intellectual property from the centre to the separate
  entity.
Top 
Modification History 
Date
Sections
Source
Details
   27.03.09
   All
   University Academic Board
  Policy reviewed &ndash; minor editorial changes only
16.12.05
All
Chair, University Academic Board
Revised policy (endorsed by University Academic Board 01.12.05)
16.11.01
All
University Academic Board
New centres policy (effective immediately)
Top 
    Chapter A | Chapter B | Chapter C | Chapter D | Chapter E | Chapter F | Chapter G | Chapter H | Chapter I | Appendices | Protocol for MOPP Policy | Recent Updates
    QUT Home | MOPP Home
    CRICOS No. 00213J
    Privacy | Copyright | Accessibility
    Last modified 12-May-2010
    Contact us | Feedback | Disclaimer
