QUT | MOPP | D/5.3 Postgraduate research students
            QUT&nbsp;Home
          Contact&nbsp;us
          Search
      MOPP Home
      Protocol for MOPP Policy
      Recent Updates
      D/5.3 Postgraduate research students
Chapters
A - Governance/Organisation
B - Human Resources
C - Learning/Teaching
D - Research/Development
E - Student Administration
F - Information Management
G - Financial Management
H - Physical Facilities
I - International/Community
MOPP Appendices
MOPP Protocol
MOPP Updates
[Print-friendly version]
Contact OfficerDean of Research and Research Training 
Approval Date24/03/2006 
Approval AuthorityUniversity Academic Board 
Date of Next Review01/07/2009 
5.3.1 Overview 
5.3.2 Selection of research degree candidates 
5.3.3 Candidature management 
5.3.4 Employment of students in research 
5.3.5 Postgraduate scholarships 
5.3.6 Examination of dissertations and theses
5.3.7 QUT Outstanding Doctoral Thesis  Awards
Modification History 
5.3.1 Overview 
QUT values highly postgraduate research students whose productivity makes an important contribution
  to the University's research culture and the national innovation system. QUT is committed to providing
  a research training environment that encourages quality and timely completion of programs. Research
  training expectations are articulated through the statements on graduate capabilities of graduates
  of postgraduate research programs outlined in 
C/4.3.4.
Top 
5.3.2 Selection of research degree candidates 
QUT encourages high achieving undergraduates to consider pathways to its research higher degrees.
  QUT also recognises, where appropriate, equivalent forms of academic experience and non-standard academic
pathways.
Selection of Doctor of Philosophy (PhD) candidates is outlined in the PhD Regulations (MOPP
Appendix
  9
Standard entry requirements for research masters and professional doctorate degree programs are
  detailed in the 
QUT Handbook
and in University Guidelines
  for development and approval of awards (see 
C/3.2
Faculties may set entry requirements for postgraduate research courses which require the achievement
  of grades higher than pass level in previous studies. The academic merit of research degree candidates
  is measured in terms of results in tertiary level studies relevant to the candidate's proposed course
  of study, and research experience. Some research higher degree courses require completion of specific
  prior studies and relevant work experience. Entry criteria are listed in the course application materials.
Top 
5.3.3 Candidature management 
In supporting quality and timely completion the University requires annual reports from all postgraduate
  research students. The PhD Regulations also include mandatory candidature milestones. The monitoring
  of the quality of student research through milestones involves the routine generation of input from
  a range of research experts across the University. This collaborative approach to candidature is highlighted
  in the Final Seminar where the penultimate draft of a PhD thesis is open to public review prior to
  lodgement for examination.
Top 
5.3.4 Employment of students in research 
Students may be engaged by QUT as casual professional, sessional academic,
  part-time or temporary staff, depending on their qualifications. Care should
  be taken by students undertaking research or other duties that course rules
  and conditions of 
scholarships
with
  respect to limits on employment are not violated. Policy on sessional academic
  appointments is at 
B/4.6
Information on QUT's academic internships scheme is available at 
B/3.8.
Top 
5.3.5 Postgraduate scholarships 
Research Degrees Committee
considers
  applications and determines recipients for domestic postgraduate research scholarships, international
  stipends and fee waivers and grants-in-aid awards. Research Degrees Committee refers policy matters
  on postgraduate research scholarships to University Research and Innovation Committee. Faculties and
  institutes may also award scholarships. 
Further information about postgraduate research scholarships and awards may
  be obtained from the 
Research
  Students Centre
website.
Top 
5.3.6 Examination of dissertations and theses 
In order to ensure academic rigour, integrity, objectivity and international benchmarking, the process
  of examination of dissertations and theses is managed by Research Degrees Committee. The process involves
external examination.
Details of examination processes for PhD degrees are available in the PhD Regulations (MOPP
Appendix
    9
). Details of particular examination processes for professional doctorates and research
  masters degrees are available from the QUT Handbook and individual course materials. Notes for the
  guidance of examiners of PhD and research master degree theses are available from the 
Research
    Students Centre
website.
The principal supervisor of, or any critical academic contributor to, a candidate's thesis should not
  be an examiner of the thesis.
Requirements for presentation of theses are available from the 
Research
    Students Centre
website.
Examiner's report
Examiners are normally required to read and report upon the thesis within two months of its receipt.
If a candidate is required to revise and resubmit a thesis, the examiners' reports will be made available
  to the candidate, with the anonymity of the examiners being maintained.
After the examination process is complete, examiners' reports will be made available to the candidate
  on request. The names of examiners will be released on request providing the examiner has indicated
  willingness to have his/her identity revealed to the candidate.
Fees for external examiners
QUT pays a fee to external examiners of master and doctoral degree theses, based on Universities Australia recommended
  fees. Current recommended rates are available on the 
Universities Australia website.
Top 
5.3.7 QUT Outstanding Doctoral Thesis  Awards 
 The  QUT Outstanding Doctoral Thesis Awards acknowledge the need to encourage the  promotion of excellence in postgraduate research in Australia. These awards are intended to develop  and support Australia's  vibrant research culture by profiling:
  outstanding contribution to knowledge, and/or
  demonstration of  excellence in postgraduate research.
The QUT Outstanding Doctoral Thesis Awards comprise  the following: 
  Up to twelve Outstanding Doctoral Thesis Awards - consisting of a certificate and an honorarium of $1,000 funded centrally, and presented at the next available graduation ceremony, and
  Dean's Commendations - at faculty discretion, and consisting of a certificate and       appropriate reward.
Research Degrees Committee  considers nominations for the QUT Outstanding Doctoral Thesis Awards and  recommends recipients to the Deputy Vice-Chancellor (Research and  Commercialisation) for approval. Nominations are drawn from the research higher  degree students who successfully complete a research degree during each  calendar year.
Award guidelines are  available from the Research  Students Centre website. 
Top 
Modification History 
Date
Sections
Source
Details
  16.05.07
  D/5.3.7
   University Academic Board
  New policy on Outstanding Doctoral Thesis Awards  (endorsed by University Research and Innovation Committee 25.10.06)
24.03.06
All
University Academic Board
Revised policy (endorsed by Research Degrees Committee 06.02.06 and University Research and
        Innovation Committee 01.03.06)
31.03.00
D/5.3.3
Director, Postgraduate Research Studies
Updated in accordance with revised PhD Regulations (approved by University Academic Board
        10.03.00)
12.03.99
D/5.3.2
Secretary, University Research Committee
Revised in accordance with restructure of QUT research activities (University Academic Board
        03.07.98)
Top 
    Chapter A | Chapter B | Chapter C | Chapter D | Chapter E | Chapter F | Chapter G | Chapter H | Chapter I | Appendices | Protocol for MOPP Policy | Recent Updates
    QUT Home | MOPP Home
    CRICOS No. 00213J
    Privacy | Copyright | Accessibility
    Last modified 09-Aug-2010
    Contact us | Feedback | Disclaimer
