QUT | MOPP | D/5.5 Grievance resolution procedures for postgraduate research students
            QUT&nbsp;Home
          Contact&nbsp;us
          Search
      MOPP Home
      Protocol for MOPP Policy
      Recent Updates
      D/5.5 Grievance resolution procedures for postgraduate research students
Chapters
A - Governance/Organisation
B - Human Resources
C - Learning/Teaching
D - Research/Development
E - Student Administration
F - Information Management
G - Financial Management
H - Physical Facilities
I - International/Community
MOPP Appendices
MOPP Protocol
MOPP Updates
[Print-friendly version]
Contact OfficerDean of Research and Research Training 
Approval Date28/11/2008 
Approval AuthorityUniversity Academic Board 
Date of Next Review01/12/2011 
5.5.1 Principles 
5.5.2 Application 
5.5.3 Definitions 
5.5.4 Informal resolution
5.5.5 Formal resolution  
5.5.6 External agencies 
5.5.7 Other considerations
Related Documents
Modification History 
5.5.1 Principles 
These procedures deal with grievances involving  postgraduate research students and are consistent with QUT's grievance  resolution policy (see A/6.1 ).
QUT aims to provide quality  postgraduate research training which enables candidates to complete their  degrees successfully within the prescribed time frame. 
The following principles underpin the  University&rsquo;s grievance resolution process for postgraduate research students. 
  The  University is committed to ensuring an environment for working and learning  that is harmonious, fair and just. 
  The  principles of natural justice and procedural fairness are integral to the  investigation and resolution of grievances. 
  Grievances  will be resolved as early as possible and at the local level where possible. 
  All  grievances will be dealt with in a supportive environment without victimisation  or intimidation of anyone connected with the grievance either during or  subsequent to a grievance resolution procedure.
  All  grievances will be managed with strictest confidentiality.
Grievances regarding discriminatory practices  are handled separately under the University's grievance resolution procedures  for discrimination related grievances ( A/8.5 ), and should be referred to the Equity Director in  the first instance.
Grades for coursework undertaken as  part of a higher degree by research may be reviewed under the University's  procedures for review of grades (see QUT Student Rules and E/9.1 ).
Other sources of assistance available  to postgraduate research students are outlined on the Research  Students Centre website.
Top 
5.5.2 Application 
These  procedures will apply in any grievance, where either one or both of the  complainant or the respondent is a QUT postgraduate research student except as  outlined in clause (b) below. These procedures are limited to apply to  grievances arising from QUT activities, whether on or off campus, normally but  not exclusively of a research nature. These procedures relate to the resolution  of grievances (perceived grounds for complaint) concerning:
  individual  academic staff members (eg supervisory practice, interpersonal relationships relating  to research candidature);
  facilities  and resources. 
  These  procedures will not apply if the subject of the grievance relates to the  following:
    matters  where the grievance does not relate to a postgraduate research student&rsquo;s course  of study; 
    matters  where procedures are specified under the QUT Student Rules and/or the Doctor of Philosophy  Regulations;
    matters  which are the subject of an academic decision and which fall within the terms  of reference of Appeals Committee;
    harassment  or discrimination; 
    decisions  of QUT Council;
    the  content of approved University policy; 
    matters  where the complainant or the respondent have engaged an external agency such as  the Queensland Ombudsman or a practising lawyer. 
  Where  the Dean of Research and Research Training considers that the alleged  actions or behaviours of a staff member which constitute the grievance may  involve misconduct or serious misconduct as defined in the relevant  enterprise bargaining agreement or policy, the Dean of Research and  Research Training must report the matter to the Deputy Vice-Chancellor  (Research and Commercialisation) who in turn will notify the  Vice-Chancellor. The Vice-Chancellor may decide to handle the matter in  accordance with the relevant procedures for misconduct and serious  misconduct  (see B/8.4 and B/8.5 ).
  Except  in special circumstances, as determined by the Deputy Vice- Chancellor  (Research and Commercialisation) in consultation with the Dean of Research  and Research Training, a grievance may not be lodged later than six months  after the date on which the grievance was alleged to have arisen. 
Top 
5.5.3 Definitions 
Grievance 
A &quot; grievance &quot; is a real  or perceived cause for complaint, disagreement, conflict, dispute or similar  problem.
Complainant 
A &quot; complainant &quot; is an  individual or several individuals who claim to have experienced a negative or  unfavourable impact arising from a stated grievance.
Respondent 
A &quot; respondent &quot; is an  individual or several individuals who are alleged by a complainant to be  responsible for the circumstances comprising the grievance.
Postgraduate  research student
A &ldquo; postgraduate research student  &rdquo; is a candidate of an award defined as a research higher degree by the  University (ie Doctor of Philosophy, Professional Doctorate by Research,  Masters by Research).
Responsible  faculty member
Within each faculty a senior  member of staff is nominated as the &ldquo; responsible faculty member &ldquo; to assist in  informal and formal grievance resolution.
Top 
5.5.4 Informal resolution 
A complainant is strongly encouraged  to resolve the matter directly with the respondent, and every assistance will  be given to facilitate this. A postgraduate research student should seek the  assistance of the responsible faculty member for informal negotiation of a  grievance.  A postgraduate research  student may also seek advice from the Dean of Research and Research Training.
A postgraduate research student:
  with  a grievance about supervision should normally endeavour to resolve it by  discussion with the principal supervisor; 
  with  a grievance about other aspects of their candidature, such as facilities or  administrative decisions, should normally request the assistance of their principal  supervisor in resolving the problem, and should seek assistance from the  responsible faculty member as referred to above;
  is  encouraged to talk to the responsible faculty member about the nature of their  grievance and any resolution sought. 
The responsible faculty member may: 
  consult  with another appropriate person; 
  liaise  with University support services; 
  act  as a mediator in the conflict and facilitate a conciliation or mediation  meeting between the complainant and the respondent and other relevant  interested persons. 
The responsible faculty member will report  back directly to the student on their recommendation for resolution.
It is recommended that the informal  resolution process take no more than 10 working days. Where the student does  not accept the resolution provided or the matter is delayed beyond the  recommended 10 working days, they may consider lodging a formal complaint.Top 
5.5.5 Formal resolution  
A complainant may apply formal  procedures to resolve a grievance. However, informal resolution of grievances  is preferred over formal complaints. Postgraduate research students and their  supervisors should always attempt to resolve problems by open discussion and  negotiation in the first instance, as described in section 5.5.4 above. When  necessary, formal complaints can be made using the procedures outlined below.
Faculty staff members involved in  formal grievance resolution processes are encouraged to maintain file notes for  future reference.  
To make a formal complaint, the  postgraduate research student, as complainant:
  must  lodge a written complaint with the Dean of Research and Research Training  within six months of the occurrence of the grievance;
  may  choose to elect a support person who may be a representative of the QUT  Postgraduate Students Association and/or QUT Student Guild and who may attend  any interviews with the complainant. This person must not be a practising lawyer. 
The following formal procedures will  apply during the First Stage (faculty investigation) and Second Stage (Research  Degrees Committee investigation).
The responsible faculty member (First  Stage) and/or Research Degrees Committee Review Panel (Second Stage) will:
  advise  the respondent of the complaint and request a written response from the  respondent;
  provide  details of the response from the respondent to the complainant for  consideration prior to final discussion of the complaint;
  refer  the complainant to relevant support services as appropriate;
  liaise  with the complainant and respondent to resolve the issue;
  talk  to other relevant stakeholders as required;
  maintain  notes and provide a response to the complainant, the respondent and other  stakeholders as detailed below.
Each stage (ie First Stage and Second  Stage) should normally take no more than 20 working days. This time line may be  extended for extenuating matters such as the availability of relevant staff or  students. The process should progress upwards through each stage as required  until resolved. 
a) First Stage - Faculty investigation 
Where a grievance is not resolved  informally the complainant should lodge a formal written complaint with the  Dean of Research and Research Training who will delegate the investigation as  appropriate. The executive dean of faculty will be kept informed of the  investigation as it progresses. 
The responsible faculty member, as  investigator, will:
  provide  a copy of the written complaint to the respondent and request a written  response within five working days;
  within  10 working days, convene and chair a meeting with the head of school, the  respondent and the complainant;
  encourage  all parties to make reasonable attempts to resolve the matter and ensure they  have access to relevant information, records and persons; 
  formulate  a recommendation for resolution of the grievance and discuss this in a formal  meeting with the complainant and respondent.
Following such discussion, the responsible  faculty member shall provide to the executive dean of faculty, the complainant  and the respondent a written report on the grievance, the meeting and  investigation outcomes and recommendations. 
The report may either: 
  confirm  how the matter has been resolved;
  make  a one-off request for additional time to resolve the matter;
  recommend  that the matter be referred to Research Degrees Committee.
Where appropriate, the responsible faculty  member may make recommendations to the executive dean of faculty or others for  further action.  
b) Second Stage &ndash; Research Degrees Committee  investigation  
Where a grievance is not resolved  within the faculty, the complainant, the respondent and/or the faculty may  refer the grievance back to the Dean of Research and Research Training as the  Chair of Research Degrees Committee. The Deputy Vice-Chancellor (Research and  Commercialisation) will be kept informed of the Research Degrees Committee  investigation as it progresses. 
Research Degrees Committee shall  appoint a Review Panel to examine the complaint, consisting of:
  the  Dean of Research and Research Training (or nominee) as Chair, and
  two  members of Research Degrees Committee who have not been previously involved in  the matter.
The Review Panel will: 
  investigate  the grievance;
  consider  the written complaint and response;
  review  the report prepared by the responsible faculty member as an outcome of the  First Stage investigation;
  invite  stakeholders in the grievance to provide additional information; 
  meet  with the complainant and respondent to resolve the grievance;
  ensure  that the complainant and respondent have at least seven working days to  consider any new information/comments they have gathered prior to meeting with  them;
  provide  a report indicating resolution of the grievance or make other recommendations  to the Deputy Vice-Chancellor (Research and Commercialisation). 
The recommendation from the Review Panel,  acting on behalf of Research Degrees Committee, will be referred to the Deputy  Vice-Chancellor (Research and Commercialisation) within 20 working days from  when the grievance was referred to the Research Degrees Committee.  The Deputy Vice-Chancellor (Research and  Commercialisation) may: 
  confirm  how the matter has been resolved;
  make  a determination that additional time is required to resolve the matter.
A complainant is entitled to cease  proceedings at any stage. Any further pursuit of the matter would occur  separately and without reference to the complainant. 
The Dean of Research and Research  Training will maintain a register of formal complaints made by postgraduate  research students. A grievance register  report, incorporating only de-identified data, shall be reviewed annually by  Research Degrees Committee for the purposes of policy and procedure review, and  shall be referred to University Research and Innovation Committee and  University Academic Board, where appropriate.
c) Requirement  to participate at each level 
Staff and/or students involved in these  procedures must participate in good faith. A complainant must proceed through  the formal procedures as described above. This ensures the potential to resolve the problem at the local level  where possible. 
Top 
5.5.6 External agencies  
A complainant may decide to use an external  agency to assist in resolving a grievance, for example by taking the grievance  to the Queensland Ombudsman. However, QUT is committed to facilitating the  resolution of grievances without the need to make recourse to external  agencies.
If a complainant, while participating  in the procedures outlined in section 5.5.5 above, also chooses to involve an  external agency: 
the  head of school or nominee, the responsible faculty member and the Dean of Research  and Research Training must be notified by the complainant in writing;
  the  Dean of Research and Research Training, in consultation with the Deputy  Vice-Chancellor (Research and Commercialisation) and relevant faculty and  school staff, will determine whether or not formal proceedings will cease. In  the event of cessation of proceedings before a resolution is achieved, all  decisions and agreements arising from these procedures will be void and all records  will be annotated accordingly.
Top 
5.5.7 Other considerations 
a) Vexatious grievances
If a grievance is found to be vexatious then  appropriate action against the complainant may be considered, including  misconduct proceedings. 
b) Duty of disclosure
By participating in these procedures, a  complainant agrees that the nature of their grievance may be disclosed to the  Director, Corporate Finance. Such disclosure is for the purpose of liability  assessment and may be done without identifying the individuals concerned in the  grievance. 
c) Victimisation
Disciplinary action in accordance with  relevant University policies may be taken against any person who victimises  another person because of their involvement in these grievance resolution  procedures, or because of their support of a complainant or a respondent. Such  victimisation could include, for example, harassing or bullying the respondent  or complainant, making overt or implied threats about a person's academic or  career progress, or bias in the assessment of a student's academic work. 
Top 
Related Documents 
MOPP A/6.1 Grievance resolution  policy
MOPP A/8.11 Grievance resolution  procedures for discrimination related grievances
MOPP D/2.6 QUT Code of Conduct for  Research
MOPP D/2.7 Procedures for dealing with  allegations of research misconduct
MOPP D/3.1 Intellectual property  policy
MOPP D/5.2 Research Degrees Committee
MOPP D/5.4 Code of Good Practice for  Postgraduate Research Studies and Supervision
MOPP D/6.1 University research ethics
  MOPP E/2.1 QUT Student Code of Conduct
MOPP E/9.3 Student Ombudsman
MOPP Appendix 1(c) QUT Student Rules
MOPP Appendix 9 Doctor of Philosophy  Regulations
Research Training Quality Assurance  System
Research  Students Centre website
Top 
Modification History 
Date
Sections
Source
Details
   28.11.08
   All
  Chair, University Academic Board
  Revised grievance resolution procedures  (endorsed by University Academic Board 14.11.08, Research Degrees Committee 02.06.08  and University Research and Innovation Committee 27.06.08)
24.03.06
All
University Academic Board
Policy revised (endorsed by Research Degrees Committee 06.02.06 and University Research and
   Innovation Committee 01.03.06); policy renumbered to D/5.5 (formerly D/5.3.4)
25.05.00
All
Director, Postgraduate Research Studies
Policy updated
31.3.2000
All
Director, Postgraduate Research Studies
Updated in accordance with revised PhD Regulations (approved by University Academic Board
   10.3.2000)
Top 
    Chapter A | Chapter B | Chapter C | Chapter D | Chapter E | Chapter F | Chapter G | Chapter H | Chapter I | Appendices | Protocol for MOPP Policy | Recent Updates
    QUT Home | MOPP Home
    CRICOS No. 00213J
    Privacy | Copyright | Accessibility
    Last modified 31-Aug-2010
    Contact us | Feedback | Disclaimer
