QUT | MOPP | D/6.1 University research ethics
            QUT&nbsp;Home
          Contact&nbsp;us
          Search
      MOPP Home
      Protocol for MOPP Policy
      Recent Updates
      D/6.1 University research ethics
Chapters
A - Governance/Organisation
B - Human Resources
C - Learning/Teaching
D - Research/Development
E - Student Administration
F - Information Management
G - Financial Management
H - Physical Facilities
I - International/Community
MOPP Appendices
MOPP Protocol
MOPP Updates
[Print-friendly version]
Contact OfficerResearch Ethics Coordinator, Office of Research 
Approval Date04/04/2008 
Approval AuthorityUniversity Academic Board 
Date of Next Review01/07/2011 
6.1.1 Background 
6.1.2 Principles 
6.1.3 Definitions 
6.1.4 Roles and responsibilities 
6.1.5 Procedures 
6.1.6 Ethical clearance 
6.1.7 Duration of approval 
6.1.8 Variations to approved protocols 
6.1.9 Collaborative and/or multi-site research 
6.1.10 Concerns, complaints or unforeseen adverse events 
6.1.11 Reviews 
6.1.12 Facility inspections 
6.1.13 Progress reports 
Related Documents 
Modification History 
6.1.1 Background  
QUT is committed to the highest standard of integrity in research. The QUT  Code of Conduct for Research, based on the Australian Code for the Responsible Conduct of Research, aims to  embed ethical practice into research activities to enable quality research,  ultimately contributing to the achievement of the University's stated ambitions  in the QUT Blueprint, and to the national and  global reputation of QUT.
  In order to undertake its research activities,  QUT is accredited with various regulatory bodies. The Research Ethics Unit  coordinates the reporting of compliance matters across the areas of human,  animal and biosafety activities. This includes:
  internal       reporting to QUT Council and QUT Governance Services
  external       reporting to regulatory bodies.
Full details of these obligations can be found on the Research Ethics website.
Top 
6.1.2 Principles 
The  broad principles that guide the conduct of research at QUT are consistent with  general codes of ethical conduct, including QUT's Code of Conduct ( B/8.1 ) and the QUT Code of Conduct for Research ( D/2.6 ). Central to these are the maintenance of high ethical standards, and validity  and accuracy in the collection and reporting of research data.
Top 
6.1.3 Definitions 
Matters  covered by &lsquo;research ethics&rsquo; may also involve teaching activities, for example  use of animals in teaching practicals or activities involving biosafety issues. The generic language of research has been  used throughout this policy, for example &lsquo;research project&rsquo;, &lsquo;researchers&rsquo;,  &lsquo;ethical review&rsquo; or &lsquo;ethics committee&rsquo; and, where relevant, these terms apply  equally to teaching activities.
Top 
6.1.4 Roles and responsibilities 
Deputy Vice-Chancellor (Research and  Commercialisation)
The  Deputy Vice-Chancellor (Research and Commercialisation) is the designated  officer responsible for monitoring compliance in relation to research ethics  matters. In matters relating to research higher degree students, the Deputy  Vice-Chancellor (Research and Commercialisation) may delegate this  responsibility to the Dean of Research and Research Training.
Committees
The  following Vice-Chancellor&rsquo;s committees are advisory committees established to  assist in managing risk, ensuring compliance and reviewing applications to  confirm they meet relevant requirements in their activity areas: 
  University  Human Research Ethics Committee
  University  Animal Ethics Committee
  Institute  Biosafety Committee
Faculty Research Ethics Advisors
Each  faculty must appoint a Faculty Research Ethics Advisor (FREA) to  provide confidential advice to staff and students on integrity in research,  research ethics, the responsibilities of postgraduate supervisors and students,  and procedures for dealing with allegations of research misconduct within the  University.
FREAs  are appointed by the executive dean of faculty and are normally drawn from the  senior members of the faculty with a significant record of research experience.  FREAs are expected to be familiar with the literature and guidelines on  research integrity and research ethics and to provide advice on a  University-wide basis where necessary.
Individual staff and students
Individual  staff and students are responsible for the ethical conduct and integrity of  their research and for complying with the QUT Code of Conduct for  Research.
Top 
6.1.5 Procedures
A  number of procedures have been developed (see below) to ensure compliance with  the various regulatory frameworks and the QUT Code of Conduct for Research.
QUT  staff and students, and any external parties working through or in  collaboration with QUT as approved by the Deputy Vice-Chancellor (Research and  Commercialisation), must adhere to these procedures when engaged in any of the  following:
  research  involving human participation;
  use  of animals for scientific purposes (includes use in teaching);
  biosafety  matters including Genetically Modified Organisms (including use in teaching).
The  following policies are specific to each activity area:
  D/6.2 Research involving human participation
  D/6.3 Use of animals for scientific purposes (research and teaching)
  D/6.4 Biosafety assurance including dealings with genetically modified organisms)
All  policy statements relating to research ethics should be read in conjunction  with specific guidelines available on the Research Ethics website.
Top 
6.1.6 Ethical clearance
QUT has  established a number of standard conditions of ethical clearance for research  projects, and it is a strict condition of approval that researchers:
  conduct  their research in accordance with University policy, relevant guidelines and  regulations, together with the provisions of any relevant State/Territory or  Australian government regulations or legislation;
  comply  with any instructions from the relevant approving committee;
  report  immediately any concerns, complaints or adverse events, including unforeseen  events that might affect the continued ethical acceptability of the project;
  seek  approval for any variations to an approved protocol; 
  report  on the progress of the project at least annually, or at intervals determined by  the approving committee; 
  where  the research is publicly or privately funded, publish the results of the  project in such a way as to permit scrutiny and to contribute to public  knowledge.
If the risks involved with a project are found to be higher than  originally described, the project must be suspended and approval sought for a  variation to the study.
Top 
6.1.7 Duration of approval
Applications for ethical clearance for research projects are normally  approved for a period of three years. After three years, application may be made to  extend approval to five years, provided there are no major changes to the  conduct of the study from that originally approved.
Researchers seeking to extend their research project beyond five years  will normally need to submit a full new application for review by the relevant  approving committee. This is in  recognition that many factors may have changed since the original approval,  including changes to the protocol for the study and/or changes to the external  guidelines governing the study. 
Top 
6.1.8 Variations to approved protocols
QUT  understands that research occurs in a dynamic and constantly changing  environment, and that it may be necessary for researchers to make variations to  existing approved protocols. Variations  may include adding or removing personnel from a project, additional cohorts to  the study, or revised experimental protocols.
Variations  of a large scale, or that pose increased risks to those originally considered,  may be subject to review by the relevant approving committee. Prior approval  must be sought from the relevant approving committee, before any variations are  implemented in the study.
The  University has established procedures for variations to be made to an approved  project without the need to submit a new application for ethical clearance &ndash;  see Research Ethics website.
Top 
6.1.9 Collaborative and/or multi-site research
QUT  recognises that a great deal of research is conducted either in collaboration  with other organisations, or through other organisations. In many cases, where these organisations have  an ethics review committee, some form of review will be undertaken by all  organisations.
However,  in keeping with national guidelines, QUT seeks to minimise duplication of  review wherever possible. Where a  project has been subject to a full review by a duly registered ethics review  committee, QUT will seek to accept that review via an administrative review.
All organisations need to be informed of who is responsible for:
  monitoring  the activity; 
  responding  to concerns, complaints and adverse events; and 
  communicating  such matters between the organisations.
For some types of collaborative work it is recommended that a formal  agreement be drawn up between QUT and the host institution.&nbsp; For animal based research this agreement is a  regulatory requirement which must be complied with.
If a project requires review through multiple organisations, or is  subject to audit or investigation / review by an external organisation, the  Research Ethics Unit will determine the approach to be taken.
Top 
6.1.10 Concerns, complaints or unforeseen adverse  events
In accordance with regulatory and National guidelines, QUT has  established a set of procedures for responding to concerns, complaints or unforeseen adverse events.
Allegations of research misconduct
A complaint of suspected or  alleged misconduct in research by a QUT-related research worker is responded to  via the QUT Code of Conduct  for Research, and in particular the procedures  for dealing with allegations of research misconduct
Unforeseen adverse events arising  from research activities
Any unforeseen  adverse events arising from an approved activity must be reported to the  relevant approving committee as soon as possible, and in the case of serious  adverse events, immediately via the Research Ethics Unit.
Projects approved by an external  organisation
Projects  approved by an external organisation may be subject to the requirements of that  organisation relating to concerns / complaints / adverse events. Researchers  must immediately notify the Research Ethics Unit if their project is subject to  such an investigation / review by an external organisation.
Other concerns
General feedback on the conduct of activities may be made by any  person. Feedback should preferably be  made in writing to the Research Ethics Coordinator.
Top 
6.1.11 Reviews
Any approved or &lsquo;in progress&rsquo; research projects registered on the  Research Ethics Unit database may be the subject of random review by the Research  Ethics Unit, in conjunction with the relevant approving committee.
A review panel, usually consisting of the Research Ethics Coordinator,  FREA and any committee member wishing to participate, will meet with the  research team's chief investigator to confirm that the project is being  conducted in a manner consistent with University policy, relevant regulations  and the approved protocol.
The review panel will report its findings to the relevant approving  committee, the head of school and the Deputy Vice-Chancellor (Research and  Commercialisation) and make recommendations in relation to the continuation of  the project.
Projects approved through an external organisation may be subject to  that organisation&rsquo;s review arrangements. Researchers must immediately notify  the Research Ethics Unit if their project is selected for investigation /  review by an external organisation.
QUT research projects may also be subject to  review by the various regulatory agencies overseeing the activity areas. 
Top 
6.1.12 Facility inspections
In  accordance with external regulatory requirements and QUT&rsquo;s research ethics  procedures all laboratories, plant and animal containment facilities must be  inspected and certified at least annually.
The relevant  approving committee will establish a panel drawn from its membership, and  providing the relevant expertise to assess the facilities, and nominate a  convenor to conduct the inspections. The  panel will inspect the facilities and interview the officer in charge.
The committee will  consider all relevant information and make recommendations, as appropriate and  required, to the external regulators and/or the University, via the Deputy Vice-Chancellor  (Research and Commercialisation).
Top 
6.1.13 Progress reports
It is a condition of approval of a research project that researchers  submit a progress report on their activities at least annually, or as  determined by the relevant approving committee.
Failure to provide a progress report may result in:
  suspension  of the ethical clearance for the research project; 
  withdrawal  of approval for the research project; or 
  instigation  of research misconduct proceedings.
Top 
Related Documents
MOPP D/2.6 QUT Code of Conduct for Research
    MOPP D/6.5 University Human Research Ethics Committee
  MOPP D/6.6 QUT Institute Biosafety Committee
  MOPP D/6.7 University Animal Ethics Committee
Research Ethics website
Top 
Modification History 
Date
Sections
Source
Details
04.04.08
All
University Academic Board
Revised policy (endorsed by  University Research and Innovation Committee 07.03.08)
26.03.04
All
Acting Deputy  Vice-Chancellor (Research and Commercialisation)
Revised to include  framework for conducting research and details of Faculty Research Ethics  advisors
Top 
    Chapter A | Chapter B | Chapter C | Chapter D | Chapter E | Chapter F | Chapter G | Chapter H | Chapter I | Appendices | Protocol for MOPP Policy | Recent Updates
    QUT Home | MOPP Home
    CRICOS No. 00213J
    Privacy | Copyright | Accessibility
    Last modified 06-Oct-2010
    Contact us | Feedback | Disclaimer
