QUT | MOPP | D/7.1 Outside work - academic staff
            QUT&nbsp;Home
          Contact&nbsp;us
          Search
      MOPP Home
      Protocol for MOPP Policy
      Recent Updates
      D/7.1 Outside work - academic staff
Chapters
A - Governance/Organisation
B - Human Resources
C - Learning/Teaching
D - Research/Development
E - Student Administration
F - Information Management
G - Financial Management
H - Physical Facilities
I - International/Community
MOPP Appendices
MOPP Protocol
MOPP Updates
[Print-friendly version]
Contact OfficerDeputy Vice-Chancellor (Research and Commercialisation) 
Approval Date20/10/2010 
Approval AuthorityCouncil 
Date of Next Review01/10/2013 
7.1.1 Policy principles 
7.1.2 Application 
7.1.3 Definitions 
7.1.4 University outside work 
7.1.5 Private outside work 
7.1.6 Obtaining approval to undertake outside work activities 
7.1.7 Authorising officer 
7.1.8 Approval criteria 
7.1.9 Additional requirements for private outside work 
7.1.10 Ongoing obligations regarding approvals 
7.1.11 Workload and payment mechanisms 
7.1.12 Financial and contractual considerations for University outside work 
7.1.13 Recordkeeping and reporting 
7.1.14 Intellectual property 
7.1.15 Complaints and non-compliance 
7.1.16 Administrative support for outside work activities 
7.1.17 External work unrelated to a staff member's position at QUT 
Related Documents 
Modification History 
7.1.1 Policy principles 
a) Fostering the pursuit of appropriate outside work by academic staff of QUT
QUT encourages academic staff to identify and pursue outside work aligned to the University's
  strategic ambitions.
QUT positions itself as "a university for the real world"
and a leading "university
  of technology
". QUT values outside work which
forms and fosters relationships which are informed by the relevance and application of its activities
    to areas such as commerce, industry, the professions, government, and the community
builds capacity by pursuing activities which add to the range and depth of expertise of staff.
QUT has a strong history of active staff involvement in a wide range of outside entities and industries.
  In fostering continuation of this tradition, it is important to create a balance between the internal
  work commitments of academic staff, and their engagement in outside work.
b) Creating a framework to appropriately protect the interests of all parties
This policy provides a framework:
in which all outside work is considered for approval by an authorising officer, so that the University
    is strategic in its outside engagement, and academic staff are able to pursue professional development
    opportunities, and earn additional income for their operational area and for themselves
designed to minimise risks and safeguard the interests of the University and its staff in undertaking
    outside work.
This policy distinguishes between "university outside work"
and "private outside
  work". All outside work will normally be undertaken through the University as university outside
  work. However, it is recognised that undertaking outside work on a private basis may be appropriate
  in some cases, and an academic staff member may enter into such an arrangement consistent with the
  requirements of this policy.
This policy applies regardless of whether any outside work is undertaken by the staff member as an
  individual, or as part of another entity, such as a staff member's consulting company.
Outside work in the form of Company Directorships is subject to different considerations and staff
  should consult the Office of Commercial Services in the first instance. Outside work which is not related
  to the academic staff member's position at QUT is dealt with in 
D/7.1.17.
c) Managing human resources aspects of outside work
The extent and nature of academic staff participation in university outside work is negotiated in
  performance management and workload allocation discussions. Staff may consider opportunities that arise
  outside the PPr cycle, subject to the normal approval process.
Staff undertaking outside work must do so in a manner consistent with all of the obligations imposed
  on staff in the QUT Code of Conduct (B/8.1). In
  particular, where any outside work is being undertaken (including private outside work), staff members
  retain an obligation to the University under the Code of Conduct to address conflicts of interest situations
  (for further details see 
B/8.1.6),
  in consultation with the authorising officer under this policy. This obligation is ongoing and
  applies for the duration of any outside work activity.
Click here
to view a flowchart summarising the process of application and approval
  for outside work by academic staff.
Top 
7.1.2 Application 
The policy applies to academic staff and to academic senior staff and  outlines the arrangements under which full-time and part-time staff in these  categories may undertake outside work. Sessional academic staff are not  required to seek approval for any work with an outside entity, however, must  still comply with the Code of Conduct and other policies.
  Arrangements for professional staff and  senior professional staff are found in 
  B/7.9.
Top 
7.1.3 Definitions 
"authorising officer"
is the officer who determines applications to undertake
outside work in accordance with section 
D/7.1.7
of this policy.
  "exempt outside work" refers to the following activities: journal  editorship and editorial work, external examining and examination of theses,  occasional lectures and public appearances (including broadcasts and  performances), occasional publications (such as newspaper articles), writing  and publishing books, professional associations and working parties, pro bono,  community and voluntary work, and honorariums including payments for external  co supervision of HDR students.
"outside entity" refers to a business, company, partnership or  third party which is independent of QUT or in which QUT has no ownership or  interest.
"outside work" refers to any work, whether paid or unpaid,  undertaken by a staff member for an outside entity, or in a self-employed  capacity, where the work relates to the staff member's position at QUT. It does  not include second jobs unrelated to the discipline in which the staff member  is employed at QUT, or activities arising from personal interests which are not  related to the staff member's position at QUT. Outside work is categorised as  either 'university outside work' or 'private outside work'. For work which is  not within the academic staff member's discipline or expertise, refer to 
D/7.1.17.
"university  outside work" involves work agreed between the University and an  outside organisation.
"private  outside work" refers to outside work where the activity is  agreed directly between a staff member and an outside entity.
  "university resources"
  refers to resources resulting from the expenditure
  of QUT funds and includes
premises, facilities, electricity, equipment, and services, such as computing and library
mail, facsimile, telephone, email, internet services and other information facilities defined in
  MOPP F/1.11, Acceptable use of information technology resources
QUT name, letterhead and logo
  QUT       intellectual property 
   assistance from staff who do not have approval to undertake outside work
   attributes attached to being a staff member of the University such as the University's reputation
   provision of relief from teaching, administrative or other responsibilities.
  "workload"
  refers to the activities, tasks or roles allocated to an academic
  staff member in accordance with relevant employment agreements and University guidelines.
Top 
7.1.4 University outside work 
'University outside work' refers to outside work where the activity is agreed between
  the University and an outside entity. It may include use of subject knowledge and expertise for issue
  analysis or problem solving in specific social, industrial or commercial contexts. Examples of
  academic staff university outside work include
investigating an issue and providing a report and recommendations
developing and delivering training courses for a company or government department
being an expert witness
appointment of a staff member as an officer of a company by the University
Characteristics of University outside work
Where  a client is referred, introduced or recommended by any component of the  University, outside work must be taken as University outside work. Outside work  undertaken by award of a tender made under QUT's name is also characterised as  University outside work. Often a staff member will obtain outside work due to  their status of employment as an academic of QUT, rather than by other  professional contacts or contexts, and this will normally be characterised as  University outside work. However, the authorising officer may approve such work  as private outside work when it is agreed that the work meets the private  outside work approval criteria listed in D/7.1.8 below.
A staff member undertaking university outside work
  is covered by the University's       professional indemnity and public liability insurance policies, subject to       the current terms and conditions of those policies. A staff member       undertaking approved University outside work will be defended by the       University in the event of a claim against the staff member, provided they       have lawfully, diligently and conscientiously endeavoured to carry out the       work 
   is entitled to use university resources within the conditions of this policy.
  Payment arrangements are negotiated with the authorising officer in accordance with section 
  D/7.1.12
of this policy.
Top 
7.1.5 Private outside work 
'Private outside work' refers to outside work where the activity is agreed  directly between a staff member and an outside entity subject to prior approval  in accordance with this policy. This includes where a staff member is an  officer of a company, except where the appointment is made by the University  (staff proposing to undertake outside work in the form of company directorships  should consult the Office of Commercial Services in the first instance). Other  examples of academic staff private outside work include
  staff       in the Faculty of Law advising legal firms 
  staff       in the School of Nursing and Midwifery working casual shifts in a hospital 
  staff       in the Faculty of Science and Technology designing software for a client 
  staff       in the School of Psychology and Counselling seeing private clients. 
Characteristics of private outside work
Private outside work will generally comprise work undertaken to maintain  professional skills, work undertaken as a result of relationships with clients  or contacts which predate the staff member's QUT appointment, or work which is  gained via the staff member's status within a profession or within professional  organisations, rather than via their status as a University academic.
Work which has previously been regarded as University outside work  cannot be converted to private outside work purely at the behest of the staff  member concerned. For example, it would be inappropriate to undertake a  consultancy as University outside work, and then, in the event that further  related work (or work which is an extension or offshoot of the consultancy contract)  is available, to pursue this opportunity as private outside work. However, it  is recognised that there may be occasions when it is not viable or appropriate  for financial or workload management reasons for further work to be undertaken  as University outside work, in which case the authorising officer may consider  granting approval for further work as private outside work. It would also  generally be inappropriate for a staff member who has previously provided  consultancies or conducted training programs as University outside work to  convert the same activity to private outside work merely by undertaking the  work during a period of leave, unless otherwise approved by the authorising  officer.
Staff undertaking private outside work
  are       not covered by the University's professional indemnity and public       liability insurance, and will not be defended by the University in the       event of a claim against the staff member 
  are       not entitled to access University resources, although they may be accessed,       usually for a fee, by negotiation with the authorising officer 
  must       undertake all private outside work contractual and financial arrangements,       including invoicing, without the assistance or involvement of the       University 
  must       ensure that their clients are aware that they are acting in a private       capacity 
  must       bear all costs of the work
  must       do work in own time 
  must not allow work to affect       performance of role at University 
  must ensure no conflict of       interest. 
Remuneration for private outside work is as agreed between the staff  member and the outside entity, and does not involve the University in any way.
Top 
7.1.6 Obtaining approval to undertake outside work activities 
Engagement in outside work in either category will vary between staff  members, and is negotiated in performance management and workload allocation  discussions as part of the Performance Planning and Review (PPr) process for  academic staff (for further details, see B/9.2 and University  workload allocation guidelines).
Prior to commencing a specific outside work activity, staff must seek  and obtain formal approval from the authorising officer for the activity. 
This application will be determined in accordance with the criteria  specified in D/7.1.8. As approval to undertake outside work is project  specific, a new application must accompany each project.
  Continuation of involvement in outside work projects which extend beyond  a year is subject to review in annual workload allocation and management  processes. Where the work is of an ongoing nature (for example, work in  professional practice seeing private clients), approval is to be obtained each  year in conjunction with workload processes, with an agreement of the amount of  time for that work for that year.
Where possible, approval should be sought in conjunction with PPr  processes, but where outside work opportunities become available at other  times, a staff member must ensure that approval under this policy is obtained.
Forms for use in seeking approval and procedures to be followed are  available on the Office of Commercial Services website .
Staff  undertaking exempt outside work (see definition in D/7.1.3 above) are not required to seek approval under this section. The pursuit of  exempt outside work must however be consistent with the performance and  workload management discussions noted above (for information regarding payment  for exempt outside work, consult section D/7.1.11 below).
Top 
7.1.7 Authorising officer 
The following authorising officers approve or reject applications to undertake outside work. Authorising
  officers may also negotiate modifications to outside work arrangements.
staff category
authorising officer
Academic staff
Executive dean of faculty (may be devolved to head of school)
Heads of school, and other academic staff who report to the executive
        dean of faculty
Executive dean of faculty
Executive deans of faculty
Deputy Vice-Chancellor (Academic)
Institute directors
Deputy Vice-Chancellor (Research and
      Commercialisation)
Deputy Vice-Chancellors
Vice-Chancellor
Vice-Chancellor
Chancellor
Where an academic staff member is a member of an institute, the executive dean of faculty will consult
  with the institute director regarding the application for outside work prior to granting approval.
Top 
7.1.8 Approval criteria 
An application to undertake outside work must be assessed in terms of risk, workload management and
  use of university resources. An authorising officer must be satisfied that the category of outside
  work (University outside work or private outside work) and resulting contractual and payment arrangements
  are appropriate having regard to the circumstances.
University outside work approval criteria
Applications to undertake University outside work will normally be approved where
the work is aligned to the staff member's performance plan, the organisational area's
    strategic, workload and financial plans, and the strategic ambitions of the University
the work falls within the staff member's agreed workload allocation for outside work and
    will not interfere with carrying out agreed workload commitments
the work contributes to staff development and capacity building
the proposal realistically assesses any costs to the University, and addresses, where necessary,
    issues related to use of university resources, cost recovery, disbursement of revenue, management
    of intellectual property, confidentiality, and liability and indemnity
any conflicts of interest are avoided or appropriately managed (see Code of Conduct 
B/8.1
and
    University's 
Conflict of Interest
    procedures)
the work is of a type and quality which enhances the reputation of the University and the staff
    involved
risks have been managed and the work is not likely to expose the University to litigation or liability
contractual arrangements will not inhibit the freedom of enquiry of the University and its staff,
    nor detract from any function of the University
the work is not in competition with services otherwise provided by the University, nor unfairly
    in competition with services provided by other entities
ethical clearance has been obtained where this is appropriate (see 
D/6
and 
research
      ethics procedures).
Approval to undertake University outside work may be granted for part-time academic staff but the
  authorising officer must take into account the fraction of the appointment and associated workload
  issues.
Private outside work approval criteria
Applications to undertake private outside work will normally be approved where
there is no use of university resources, or adequate reimbursement arrangements are in place
the work falls within the staff member's agreed workload allocation for outside work and
    will not interfere with carrying out agreed University work commitments
there is no use of QUT intellectual property, or arrangements are in place consistent with the
    Intellectual Property Policy (D/3.1)
appropriate arrangements are in place to ensure that clients are aware that the staff member acts
    in a private capacity and not as an employee or representative of QUT (see 
D/7.1.9)
any conflicts of interest are avoided or appropriately managed (see Code of Conduct 
B/8.1
and
    University's 
Conflict of Interest
    procedures)
risks have been managed and the work is not likely to expose the University to litigation or liability
    nor does the work have the potential to damage the University's reputation
the work is not in competition with services otherwise provided by the University.
The authorising officer should be satisfied that approval is in the University's interests. Leave
  without pay or a part-time appointment may be negotiated with the staff member to enable them to undertake
  private outside work if there is likely to be an impact on allocated workload.
If an employee seeks to undertake private outside work during a period of long service or annual leave,
  the authorising officer should take a number of factors into account in determining approval, for example
the nature of the work and how it was obtained by the staff member, including any prior arrangements
    for similar work (refer to 
D/7.1.5
whether the work is to be performed for a competitor of QUT
whether there are any occupational health and safety concerns weighing in favour of the employee
    not working during the period of leave
whether the work has the potential to adversely affect the reputation of QUT or the employee
whether there are any compassionate reasons that allow the work to be performed
whether the work will enhance the skills or knowledge of the employee to the benefit of QUT
any other matters that might be considered relevant.
Top 
7.1.9 Additional requirements for private outside work 
Because outside work is defined as related to the staff member's position at QUT, staff undertaking
  private outside work are required to
advise their clients in writing that they are working in a private capacity and not as an employee
    or representative of the University
provide their clients with the Schedule of terms and conditions on which staff acting in
      a personal capacity engage in private outside work (further information is available from the Office
    of Commercial Services)
certify to the University that the above has been done
certify to the University that they are covered by adequate, current professional indemnity and
    public liability insurance.
Staff undertaking private outside work where they contract with a series of individuals for short
  term provision of a service, such as health service providers seeing patients, may display the schedule
  in their premises or indicate in their documentation (business cards, letter head) that the schedule
  is available, provided this is agreed by the authorising officer at the time of application.
Top 
7.1.10 Ongoing obligations regarding approvals 
Staff members are required to notify the authorising officer of any material changes to the outside
  work during its course, such as to the nature of the work, its value, its impact on time or resource
  use, insurance arrangements, and any conflicts of interest which arise.
Authorising officers may withdraw approval to undertake university or  private outside work where there is any change in the work which would impact  on the approval criteria or, in the case of university outside work, if there  is an agreed change to the work's terms, conditions or scope. In this case,  leave without pay or a part-time appointment may be considered to enable the  staff member to undertake outside work or to meet contractual obligations.
Top 
7.1.11 Workload and payment mechanisms 
University outside work
Workload  and payment mechanisms should be resolved prior to approval of University  outside work under D/7.1.8.
As  part of workload negotiations and the approval process specified in this  policy, University outside work may be designated as either
  within allocated workload
  in addition to allocated       workload. 
Where  University outside work is designated as being within allocated workload,  professional fees are retained by the University in an account of the  operational area of the academic staff member.
If  University outside work is regarded as being in addition to allocated workload,  then payment options are
  retention of professional fees by       the University in a surplus account in the operational area of the staff       member, with funds to be expended in accordance with University policies       and procedures
  subject to the appropriate       approval procedure being followed, payment to the staff member through the       University payroll (via a completed Payroll (Overload) Claim form       available from the Finance and Resource Planning website). For further       information on the approval process, refer to D/7.1.1. 
Where  University outside work is undertaken in combination of 'within allocated  workload' and 'in addition to allocated workload', the workload proportions to  be allocated and payment mechanisms are negotiated and approved by the  authorising officer.
For  further details regarding financial and contractual aspects of University  outside work, refer to D/7.1.12 below.
Private outside work
All  private outside work is regarded as being in addition to allocated workload. As  noted above (D/7.1.5),  payment or remuneration for private outside work does not involve the  University in any way.
Exempt outside work
Workload and payment  arrangements for exempt outside work (refer to definition in D/7.1.3)  will be negotiated as for university outside work where applicable.
Top 
7.1.12 Financial and contractual considerations for University outside work 
(a) Costing and pricing
University  outside work contract prices are set by the University regardless of whether  the work is to be undertaken within allocated workload or in addition to  allocated workload. The University seeks to recover the full costs of  university outside work, and charge market competitive rates for staff and  equipment. However, in setting contract prices, the specific circumstances of  any project may be taken into account.
As a  component of the cost of a project, an indirect costs charge of at least 25% of  gross income is made to provide for the indirect support provided by the  University. The charge is returned to the operational area.
Further  information on costing and pricing is available from the Office of Commercial  Services.
(b) Signing authority for contracts
The  officers delegated to sign contracts for University outside work are specified  in the Schedule of Authorities and Delegations (Governance -  Contracts and Agreements).
(c) Expenditure of funds
Expenditure  of funds for University outside work, such as acquisition of equipment or  appointment of support staff, is made in accordance with University policies  and procedures and the Schedule of Authorities and Delegations.
(d) Management of University outside work contracts
General  requirements for management of contracts are specified in G/6.1 , and must be complied with in regard to a University  outside work contract.
(e) Disbursement of income
Disbursement  of income for university outside work is based on actual, not budgeted, revenue  and costs. Disbursements are prioritised in the following order in the event of  any dispute
  indirect costs (at least 25 per       cent for other paid outside work charge on gross income for the contract) 
  actual direct non-labour costs 
  actual direct labour costs,       usually in the form of salary and salary on-costs for administrative staff       and other staff contracted specifically for a project 
  professional fees for academic       staff where the work is undertaken in addition to allocated workload (as       appropriate - refer to D/7.1.11) 
  balance to operational area       surplus accounts or other accounts.
Further  information on disbursement of income is available from the Office of  Commercial Services.
Top 
7.1.13 Recordkeeping and reporting 
The  Office of Commercial Services maintains a Register of Outside Work which  records information captured in the approval process. The authorising officer  should forward information or forms regarding approvals to Commercial Services  (for procedures see the OCS website).
The  Office of Commercial Services provides a report to the Vice-Chancellor each  year, through the Deputy Vice-Chancellor (Research and Commercialisation),  detailing
  the numbers of staff participating       in university outside work and private outside work, detailed by       organisational area 
  the actual income value of       university outside work 
  the amount of time spent in       university outside work 
  analysis of trends and issues in       the conduct of outside work, with particular emphasis on the extent to       which it supports pursuit of the University's strategic ambitions,       maximising benefits and minimising risks to the University and its staff 
  a full list of names of staff       involved in university and private outside work. 
Top 
7.1.14 Intellectual property 
Management  of intellectual property used in or generated in the course of university  outside work is to be in accordance with the University's intellectual property  policy (see D/3.1).
Ownership  of intellectual property generated by staff in the course of private outside  work will not generally be owned by QUT, subject to contractual arrangements  and use of university resources. Any arrangements for use of QUT intellectual  property in private outside work must be finalised prior to commencing any  private outside work.
Top 
7.1.15 Complaints and non-compliance 
Responsibility for delivery of university outside work lies with the relevant
  school or department. Complaints from clients in relation to the conduct of
  university outside work will be dealt with by the authorising officer in the
first instance.
Issues relating to non-compliance with this policy by staff will be addressed
  by the authorising officer in the first instance, and in accordance with the
  procedures for performance management (see 
B/9.5
for
  senior staff, 
QUT
  Enterprise Bargaining Agreement (Academic Staff)
, clause 43 and 
QUT
  Enterprise Bargaining Agreement (Professional Staff)
, clause
  48), or misconduct or serious misconduct (see 
B/8.5
for
  senior staff, 
QUT
  Enterprise Bargaining Agreement (Academic Staff)
, clause 44 and 
QUT
  Enterprise Bargaining Agreement (Professional Staff)
, clause
  49), as appropriate.
Top 
7.1.16 Administrative support for outside work activities 
The  Office of Commercial Services provides guidance on assessing and managing  outside work proposals and must be involved in any university outside work  which meets any one or more of the following criteria
  is valued at $10,000 or more
  includes commercial research
  is an expert witness project
  is an international project
  requires quality certification       (ISO 9000). 
Faculties  and institutes may manage university outside work valued at less than $10,000,  and not otherwise covered by the above list, as they see fit within the  requirements of this policy.
Top 
7.1.17 External work unrelated to a staff member's position at QUT 
Academic  staff are free to undertake other work not related to their duties or area of  expertise without the need to seek prior approval, provided that:
  the work does not interfere with       the performance of QUT duties 
  the work does not involve the use       of University resources 
  the work does not involve a       conflict of interest between the staff member's personal interests and the       interests of the University 
  the work does not involve a       misuse of the staff member's position at the University. 
Where  undertaking the work may result in a breach of these requirements, the staff  member must notify their supervisor and must take appropriate steps to remedy  the situation in conjunction with the supervisor. Appropriate steps may  include:
  management of a conflict of       interest situation in accordance with QUT's Code of Conduct and the Procedures for Disclosure of Interests 
  subject to the agreement of the       relevant head of school, alteration of working arrangements (eg reduced       hours of work, period of leave) to ensure that work performance for QUT is       not adversely affected by the outside employment commitments 
  discontinuing the outside       employment. 
Top 
Related Documents 
MOPP A/7.1 Indemnity and insurance
MOPP B/8.1 Code of Conduct
MOPP D/3.1 Intellectual property policy
MOPP G/6.1 Policy on management of contracts and MOUs
Top 
Modification History 
Date
Sections
Source
Details
  20.10.10
  All
  Council
  Periodic review - Policy revised
  15.09.10
  All
  Governance Services
  Policy revised to reflect repeal of Information Facilities Rules
01.03.06
All
Council
New policy - replaces MOPP D/7 Commercial research, consultancy and private practice
        (D/7.1 - D/7.6 rescinded) (endorsed by Planning and Resources Committee 15.02.06 and Vice-Chancellor's
        Advisory Committee 22.02.06)
Top 
    Chapter A | Chapter B | Chapter C | Chapter D | Chapter E | Chapter F | Chapter G | Chapter H | Chapter I | Appendices | Protocol for MOPP Policy | Recent Updates
    QUT Home | MOPP Home
    CRICOS No. 00213J
    Privacy | Copyright | Accessibility
    Last modified 29-Oct-2010
    Contact us | Feedback | Disclaimer
