QUT | MOPP | E/4.2 Advanced standing
            QUT&nbsp;Home
          Contact&nbsp;us
          Search
      MOPP Home
      Protocol for MOPP Policy
      Recent Updates
      E/4.2 Advanced standing
Chapters
A - Governance/Organisation
B - Human Resources
C - Learning/Teaching
D - Research/Development
E - Student Administration
F - Information Management
G - Financial Management
H - Physical Facilities
I - International/Community
MOPP Appendices
MOPP Protocol
MOPP Updates
[Print-friendly version]
Contact OfficerDean of Studies, Learning and Teaching Unit 
Approval Date22/06/2007 
Approval AuthorityUniversity Academic Board 
Date of Next Review01/01/2012 
4.2.1 Policy statement 
4.2.2 Definition of  advanced standing 
4.2.3 Applications for advanced  standing 
4.2.4 Advanced standing  precedent list 
4.2.5 Principles in the  determination of advanced standing  
4.2.6 Advanced standing  arrangements - ATN universities  
4.2.7 Advanced standing  arrangements - VTE sector 
4.2.8 Review of ruling on  advanced standing 
4.2.9 Procedures
Related Documents 
Modification History 
This policy should be read in conjunction with the 
QUT 
  Student Rules
and the procedural information provided on the 
Student 
  Services website
4.2.1 Policy  statement 
QUT's advanced standing policy aims to optimise student  progression through award courses by recognising prior learning outcomes as the  basis for satisfying some course requirements. Advanced standing may be based  on formal and/or informal learning.  
Key objectives of the policy are to:
      facilitate  students' movement between institutions and between courses of various types  and levels
  provide  prospective students with a comprehensive and informative system of advanced  standing precedent decisions, thereby enabling them to evaluate with confidence  the extent of advanced standing they would receive on admission to a QUT course  for which they may be eligible
  relate  any decision on advanced standing to a program of study within an award course
  enable  students to complete award courses with maximum efficiency by using and  building upon knowledge that has been gained from prior learning experiences
  maintain  established academic standards for graduates completing QUT award courses. 
QUT&rsquo;s policy on advanced standing is made under Student Rule  17(1), and should be read in conjunction with procedural information on the  Student Services website.  
Top 
4.2.2 Definition  of advanced standing 
Advanced standing is  the term used to specify what is granted to a student on the basis of prior  learning. Advanced standing is expressed in terms of the unit(s) and number of  credit points that the student is not required to undertake in their QUT course  because of the prior learning. 
Advanced standing is categorised as specified  advanced standing or unspecified  advanced standing.
  Specified advanced standing is granted where a  student's prior learning is assessed as satisfying the objectives (learning  outcomes) of a specific unit or units within the QUT award course. These units  are typically within the core and/or options of the course. The status recorded  is 'Exempt'; this does not contribute to any grade point average (GPA) calculation.
  Unspecified advanced standing is granted where a  student's prior learning is assessed as being equivalent to one or more  electives within the QUT award course. The status recorded is 'Exempt'; this  does not contribute to any GPA calculation.
In cases where a  QUT student is transferring between courses and has already completed a  particular unit in another QUT course, no advanced standing  application is necessary where the unit in the new course has the  same unit code and version as that undertaken in the original course. Under  these conditions the unit is automatically added into the student's new study  plan, together with the grade achieved. The original grade is included in any  GPA calculation for the new course. The number of units that are  transferred in this manner is not limited by rules relating to maximum advanced  standing that is available on the basis of the length of the award course.
In cases where a  QUT student is transferring between courses and has already completed a  particular unit in another QUT course, an advanced standing application is  required where the unit in the new course is a different version from that  undertaken in the original course. However, the number of units that are  transferred in this manner is not limited by rules relating to maximum advanced  standing that is available on the basis of the length of the award course. The  status recorded is &lsquo;Exempt&rsquo;; this does not contribute to any GPA calculation. 
Advanced standing granted to a student is considered to be  provisional until the student meets all prescribed administrative requirements  such as the submission of relevant documentation. In the case of  cross-institutional enrolment, this includes evidence of satisfactory completion  of any pre-approved units undertaken.
Top 
4.2.3 Applications  for advanced standing 
Students can apply for advanced standing either with their  application for admission to the University or at any later time during their  studies. An application for advanced standing will not be accepted prior to an  application for admission.
Any advanced standing that is granted must be considered in  conjunction with an identified study plan. Where a study plan is based on a  student&rsquo;s nominated major and that major is subsequently varied by the student,  advanced standing applied in relation to the first major proposed may no longer  be applicable to the study plan for the new major.
Top 
4.2.4 Advanced  standing precedent list 
A comprehensive and student-friendly advanced standing precedent  list (ASPL) will enable prospective students to assess in a reliable manner the  amount of advanced standing they are likely to receive on admission to a QUT  award course.
The QUT ASPL ensures consistency and efficiency of  decision-making. A precedent records an advanced standing decision with the aim  of applying that decision to subsequent comparable cases. Precedent decisions  include those of non-equivalent as well as those of equivalent learning  outcomes. The database of precedents, together with other advanced standing  determinations, constitutes the QUT ASPL.
The following decisions on  advanced standing must be recorded in the ASPL:
  all  precedent decisions, including those of non-approval
  advanced  standing based on negotiated formal arrangements with other institutions
  advanced  standing based on assessments of formal learning at other institutions,  including vocational and technical education (VTE) institutions
  advanced  standing based on continuing education programs or other informal learning  programs (including arrangements for the automatic granting of advanced  standing for designated continuing education programs).
The ASPL database must be  consulted in relation to any advanced standing application being considered.
To ensure that the use of the ASPL remains soundly based  academically, ASPL entries should include a designated time limit, and must be  monitored regularly by the relevant academic coordinator. The Director, Student  Business Services, is the data custodian for the ASPL.
Top 
4.2.5 Principles  in the determination of advanced standing 
Applications for advanced standing are  assessed in the first instance against the ASPL. Where no precedent exists such  that a new assessment must be made, with the outcome subsequently added to the  ASPL, the following principles will apply.
(a)  Determinations on advanced standing are made  at the most appropriate academic level
Decisions  on specified advanced standing for individual QUT units are made by the course coordinator (in collaboration with the relevant  study area coordinator and/or unit coordinator where appropriate). Where  a decision is made about specified advanced standing in respect of a particular  QUT unit, that decision will be applied consistently across the University on  the basis of the ASPL.
Decisions  on specified advanced standing that are applicable to the level of a course and  may involve a holistic judgement, for example in respect of the complete first  year of a QUT course, are made by the course coordinator (or study area  coordinator where appropriate).
Decisions  on unspecified advanced standing are the responsibility of the coordinator of  the course (or study area coordinator) for which the student is applying or has  been admitted. 
(b)  Maximum advanced  standing available is based on the length of the award course to which the  advanced standing will be applied
A student may be granted advanced standing up to a designated  maximum limit, dependent on the length of the University award course to which  the advanced standing will be applied and the nature of the prior  learning.
  For  courses having a standard duration of two years of equivalent study or greater,  advanced standing may be granted up to a limit which ensures that the student  completes at least the equivalent of one year of full-time study through  enrolment in QUT units that are relevant to the award course to which the  advanced standing will be applied.
  For  courses having a standard duration of less than two years of equivalent  full-time study, advanced standing may be granted up to a limit which ensures  that the student completes at least one-half of the total credit points through  enrolment in QUT units that are relevant to the award course to which the  advanced standing will be applied.
Note that, in  the case of a student transferring between a QUT double degree and one of the  component degrees, transfer of any relevant units that have been successfully  completed will occur automatically.
(c) Currency of prior formal learning must be taken  into account
The granting of advanced standing normally relies on currency of  a student's knowledge. Consideration in any advanced standing decision should  be given to whether knowledge in the field is suitably current or has become  dated, for example by changes in practice or technology.  
(d)  Advanced standing  for credentialled prior learning requires original evidence
Where the basis for advanced standing is formal learning from an  approved institution, the advanced standing is granted only on the basis of  original evidence of successful completion. Approved domestic institutions are  those listed with the Australian Qualifications Framework (AQF) Register of  Recognised Education Institutions and Authorised Accreditation Authorities  Australia.  International institutions  and qualifications are assessed on a case by case basis using recognised  resources for the assessment of international qualifications.  
Subject to this section, previous non-award studies at QUT or  another institution may be the basis for an application for advanced  standing.  
(e) Advanced standing is dependent on the award level of  prior formal learning
Advanced standing for formal learning is normally granted at the  same award level. Advanced standing for prior learning at bachelor level, for  example, would be granted towards a bachelor level award course at QUT.  
Advanced standing will normally be granted for prior studies  undertaken at a lower award level only where a formal advanced standing  arrangement exists, or where the different level courses are part of a nested  suite or approved articulating set of courses and a higher award level in the suite has not already been  completed. 
(f)   Advanced  standing for credentialled learning is to be based on grades equivalent to QUT  grades of 4 or higher 
Advanced standing will not be granted on the basis of failed  studies or on the basis of advanced standing or exemptions obtained in prior  formal learning. To maintain academic standards, advanced standing based on  non-QUT study must be equivalent to a QUT grade of 4 or higher. In the case of  overseas qualifications, an appropriate assessment should be made to meet the  intent of this requirement. 
(g) Advanced  standing for uncredentialled learning requires appropriate evidence 
Advanced standing may be granted on the basis of informal or  uncredentialled learning, such as professional work or life experience,  provided that appropriate evidence is provided.  
Advanced standing applications must be considered on a case by  case basis, taking into account the individual student's circumstances, award  course and the documentary evidence provided. Due to the unstructured and  highly variable nature of uncredentialled learning, this type of advanced  standing cannot be the subject of any precedents; care nevertheless must be  taken by course coordinators to maintain consistency over student/course  cohorts.  
Top 
4.2.6 Advanced  standing arrangements - ATN universities 
It is intended that, as far as possible, ATN students admitted to related  courses at an ATN partner university will experience minimal disruption to  normal progression in their studies. However, the credit received will be  subject to course structures and to QUT's advanced standing policies and  procedures.
Top 
4.2.7 Advanced  standing arrangements - Vocational and Technical Educational (VTE) sector 
QUT supports  the policy guidelines on cross-sector qualification linkages from Universities Australia: Policy guidelines on cross-sector qualification linkages.
The University is committed to working with the VTE sector to  establish a range of pathways through which QUT's courses are linked with VTE  courses. Pathways that have been developed range from advanced standing  arrangements through to combined award courses with merged curricula and a  single point of entry. 
For further details, refer to  C/3.2.
Top 
4.2.8 Review  of ruling on advanced standing 
A student who is dissatisfied with the outcome of an application for  advanced standing may appeal the decision. Refer to Student Rule 46. 
Top 
4.2.9 Procedures 
Under Student Rule 17(2), the Registrar determines procedural  requirements for applications for advanced standing. Procedural requirements are  available from the Student Services  website. 
The Student Business Services Department is responsible for  managing advanced standing processes. 
Top 
Related Documents 
MOPP  C/3.1 Courses and awards
MOPP C/3.2 Award classifications
  MOPP C/4.1 Curriculum development and approval
  MOPP C/5.2 QUT Grading system
  MOPP E/4.1 Student admission
Top 
Modification History 
Date
Sections
Source
Details
  11.02.11
  All
  Governance Services
  Revised terms of reference due to name change from Office of Teaching Quality to Learning and Teaching Unit
   22.06.07
   All
   University Academic Board
  Revised  policy (effective from 01.01.09)
19.11.04
E/4.2.7
University Academic Board
Revised policy (endorsed by Academic Policy and Procedures Committee 10.11.2004)
25.06.04
E/4.2.2
University Academic Board
Revised policy (effective 25.06.2004)
20.06.03
All
University Academic Board
New policy (effective 01.01.2004)
Top 
    Chapter A | Chapter B | Chapter C | Chapter D | Chapter E | Chapter F | Chapter G | Chapter H | Chapter I | Appendices | Protocol for MOPP Policy | Recent Updates
    QUT Home | MOPP Home
    CRICOS No. 00213J
    Privacy | Copyright | Accessibility
    Last modified 10-Feb-2011
    Contact us | Feedback | Disclaimer
