QUT | MOPP | E/4.1 Student admission
            QUT&nbsp;Home
          Contact&nbsp;us
          Search
      MOPP Home
      Protocol for MOPP Policy
      Recent Updates
      E/4.1 Student admission
Chapters
A - Governance/Organisation
B - Human Resources
C - Learning/Teaching
D - Research/Development
E - Student Administration
F - Information Management
G - Financial Management
H - Physical Facilities
I - International/Community
MOPP Appendices
MOPP Protocol
MOPP Updates
[Print-friendly version]
Contact OfficerDirector, Student Business Services 
Approval Date13/11/2009 
Approval AuthorityUniversity Academic Board 
Date of Next Review01/12/2012 
4.1.1 Admission policy 
4.1.2 Admission criteria 
4.1.3 Special consideration of educational disadvantage 
4.1.4 Alternative entry 
4.1.5  Admission through special entry programs 
4.1.6 Offers of admission 
4.1.7 Deferment 
4.1.8 Transfer of course or major 
4.1.9 Admission of international students 
4.1.10 Non-award studies 
4.1.11 Readmission 
4.1.12 Suspension or exclusion from a tertiary institution 
4.1.13 Postgraduate research degrees 
4.1.14 Appeals 
4.1.15 Admission application procedures 
Related Documents 
Modification History 
This policy should be read in conjunction with the 
QUT 
  Student Rules
and the procedural information provided on the 
Student 
  Services website
Top 
4.1.1 Admission policy 
Admission to QUT award courses is determined on the basis of merit and perceived 
  probability of success, with provision for alternative entry and entry for poorly 
  represented community groups.
General admission criteria are set out in this policy. In accordance with Student 
  Rule 5(2), the faculty academic board having responsibility for an award course 
  specifies minimum course entry requirements. The Registrar has responsibility 
  for offers of admission under Student Rule 6.
Top 
4.1.2 Admission criteria 
Candidates are considered on the basis of one or more of the following:
minimum entry requirements for individual courses (for domestic students applying for admission to most undergraduate courses, minimum entry requirements may assume knowledge of a subject area rather than set subject prerequisites)
academic merit
special provisions eg residency requirements, interview, folios or auditions
special consideration of educational disadvantage
admission through special entry programs
alternative entry (undergraduate courses only).
General course entry standards applying to the different levels of award courses (eg bachelors, honours,
  masters degrees, etc) are specified in 
C/3.2
Quotas are applied in most courses. Where demand exceeds the number of available places, not all eligible applicants who meet minimum course entry standards may be offered a place at QUT. For most QUT courses, entry quotas are imposed by the Registrar (see Student Rule 5(3)). Entry to most undergraduate courses is guaranteed for domestic applicants if an OP of 1-5 or a QUT entry rank of 93 or better is obtained.
In determining prior academic achievement, QUT will convert the grade point average of applicants from other universities to a 7 point scale so that an order of merit can be determined.
English proficiency
Entry to QUT award courses  assumes proficiency in English. English proficiency must be demonstrated by an  applicant for admission to QUT by one or more of the following:
satisfactory completion of secondary schooling in Australia
one year of full-time (or equivalent) accredited diploma level studies or higher in Australia
successful completion of a recognised English Bridging program
successful completion of studies equivalent to secondary school or higher outside Australia where  the medium of instruction is English and recognised by QUT
a recent IELTS academic test overall band score of 6.5, with no sub-score less than 6.0 (Note: University Academic Board may approve variations to this required English test score for courses or student cohorts. QUT determines equivalent scores on other approved English tests).
Admission for ATN university students
Australian Technology Network universities permit advanced entry for students undertaking a related course at another ATN university. Students use standard QUT application processes. QUT will normally give eligible students first call on any Commonwealth supported places in their chosen course / program but in exceptional circumstances may place restrictions on first-call Commonwealth supported places.
Credit transfer arrangements where students gain advanced entry via this mechanism are described in 
E/4.2.6
Top 
4.1.3 Special consideration of educational disadvantage 
Applicants who feel that their educational achievements have been adversely 
  affected by ill-health or other circumstances can specify these circumstances 
  on their application, where such disadvantage was not previously compensated 
  for by an education provider or certifying institution. Requests for special 
  consideration and any supporting documentation will be considered in the admission 
  decision.
Top 
4.1.4 Alternative entry 
QUT is committed to providing access to university education to the broadest 
  range of people possible. In particular, QUT realises that there are many people 
  in the community who would be highly successful university students but who 
  lack formal qualifications required for normal entry. Consequently, the University 
  operates an Alternative Entry Program for domestic undergraduate admission where 
  admission is on the basis of skills gained through life and work experience.
Top 
4.1.5 Admission through special entry programs 
QUT offers a number of special entry programs for  admission to the university. These programs (see below) require additional admission processes. 
    Q-Step is a special entry program for applicants from a  low income background. 
    The Oodgeroo Program recruits and supports Indigenous Australian people  into QUT courses.
    The Elite  Athlete Entry Program supports applications from recognised elite  athletes for admission to the University.
    START-QUT offers Year 12 students the opportunity to experience university while  still at school and gain admission to selected courses at QUT once they finish  school. Year 12 students who participate in the START-QUT program, complete Year 12, and achieve a minimum grade of 4 in each of two  degree-level units at QUT are guaranteed entry to some undergraduate courses at  QUT.
Top 
4.1.6 Offers of admission 
Offers of admission to commencing students specify the particular course and, 
  where applicable, attendance mode, attendance type, campus and major for which 
  the offer is made. Students are required to enrol in accordance with the offer 
  of admission (Student Rule 15(a)
  and complete at least the first teaching period accordingly. In special circumstances, 
  executive deans of faculty may approve exceptions to this policy.
If a commencing student fails to enrol for the teaching period by the date 
  specified in the University's letter of offer, the enrolment lapses and the 
  offer of admission is withdrawn in accordance with 
Student 
  Rule 6(3)(c)
, unless an application to defer commencement of study has been submitted and approved.
Top 
4.1.7 Deferment 
  All domestic applicants offered admission to undergraduate award courses may apply to defer commencement of their
  study. A deferment application will not normally be considered for courses where specific admission
  requirements apply, for example submission of folios or undertaking auditions. Applicants are not entitled
to hold a deferred place and hold a place in another QUT course for the same period.
Domestic applicants may defer  commencement of their undergraduate study in the offered course for  up to one year and in exceptional circumstances, after the first year request,  for up to a further 12 months.
International students seeking to  defer commencement of their undergraduate study should make application for a  new offer of admission with a revised commencement date. The  application may be assessed against the course entry requirements that apply at  the new commencement date.
Top 
4.1.8 Transfer of course or major 
Students who have gained admission to an award course at QUT may apply for 
  an internal transfer to another course offering in the faculty or faculties 
  involved in the current course. Applications are subject to the following prescriptions. In special circumstances the Registrar may approve exceptions to this policy.
For undergraduate students
applicants must have completed at least one unit in the award course into 
    which they have gained admission, and
 applicants must have met the 
  minimum entry level and any prerequisites applying to the proposed course 
  or major in the most recent admission period.
For all students:
There must be a place available in the proposed course or major.
Students  who are admitted to a course of study at QUT, who wish to transfer to a course offered by a different 
  faculty, including double degrees offered by more than one faculty, must apply 
  in accordance with the standard procedures for admission.
Top 
4.1.9 Admission of international students 
&quot; International student &quot; has  the same meaning as &quot; overseas student &quot; in the Higher Education Support Act 2003 (Cwth). QUT admits international students to full-time courses in accordance  with Australian Government policy.
  QUT will not accept international students who would be under the age of 17 at the time they commence
  their studies at the University. Prospective students between the ages of 17 and 18 must demonstrate
  that they will reside with a parent, legal guardian or a person nominated by the parent or legal guardian;
  or that they have made other accommodation, support and welfare arrangements approved by the university.
  For more information, refer to the International Student Services web site.
Students who are admitted to QUT under student exchange arrangements must apply for entry to Australia
  in the same manner as full-fee paying international students. Applications from international students
  for exchange programs are subject to the selection criteria pertaining to their own institution which
  have been agreed in the original exchange contract.
QUT may offer a number of  courses as packaged program of studies and include conditions to be satisfied  before progression from one course to the next course. Students who need to  delay the commencement of their second or a later course because they do not  satisfy progression conditions should  make application to defer their entry to these courses. QUT will assess the  application against the course entry requirements that apply at the new  commencement date.
Top 
4.1.10 Non-award studies 
Applications may be made to QUT for admission as a non-award student in order 
  to undertake certain units from an award course without being admitted to the course 
  itself. Non-award students receive normal instruction, assessment and examination 
  results in such units but are not admitted to undertake a complete award course.
Non-award students are required to make application for each teaching period 
  in which they wish to study. Applicants are responsible for obtaining information 
  on unit availability, assumed knowledge requirements and timetables.
An application for admission as a non-award student may be rejected if the 
  applicant does not have an educational background (including English proficiency) 
  appropriate to the unit/s applied for, or if there are insufficient places remaining 
  in the class.
Top 
4.1.11 Readmission 
Students who wish to re-enter a course after a period of absence and who are
not returning from leave of absence or deferment must apply for readmission. Students may be required to meet the standard
English language proficiency requirements.
Students who wish to re-enter
  an award course at QUT after having been excluded as a result of unsatisfactory academic performance
  must also apply for readmission (Student Rule 43). Readmission is subject to a place being available.
Readmission applicants who have been excluded must submit a written statement that demonstrates the
  applicant's readiness to return to study. The statement should address factors such as changed circumstances,
  academic and/or vocational performance since exclusion, maturity and motivation. The statement will
  be considered by the executive dean of the relevant faculty who will make a recommendation to the Registrar
  as to whether or not the applicant should be readmitted.
Enrolment program following readmission
A student who is permitted to re-enrol following a period of absence will be required to satisfy the
  course requirements which apply at the time of readmission. Depending on the length of the absence
  and on changes to course content and structure during the intervening period, the student will not
  necessarily retain credit for all units completed prior to the absence. The course coordinator may
  require the student to repeat units that have been passed previously or to undertake additional units
  in order to satisfy the current course requirements.
Top 
4.1.12 Suspension or exclusion from a tertiary institution 
QUT will refuse admission to applicants for award and non-award studies who 
  have been suspended from a higher education institution for non-academic reasons 
  (discipline or misconduct) while the suspension or equivalent action remains 
  in force.
Students who have been excluded from a course or study program at QUT or any 
  other higher education institution as a result of unsatisfactory academic performance 
  will not be considered for admission to a 
like
QUT course or study 
  program unless
at least 12 months have elapsed from the date of exclusion, and
the application is accompanied by an appropriate written statement to be 
    reviewed as part of the admission decision.
If the exclusion relates to a 
non-like
course or study program, 
  exclusion is not a factor in the admission decision.
A QUT course or study program is regarded as 
like
if it is in the 
  same discipline or study area or is similar to the course or study program from 
  which the student has been excluded.
Top 
4.1.13 Postgraduate research degrees 
For postgraduate research programs, there are other specific requirements which 
  must be met prior to admission to the program (D/5.3.2
and PhD Regulations).
Top 
4.1.14 Appeals 
Applicants who have not received an offer from QUT or are dissatisfied with 
  the outcome of their admission application may seek a review by the Director, 
  Student Business Services. The review must be sought within 10 working days 
  of the date of the notification of the admission outcome. If still dissatisfied 
  after this review, applicants may appeal to 
Appeals 
  Committee
of University Academic Board within five working days of the date 
  of the notification of the outcome of the review.
Top 
4.1.15 Admission application procedures 
The application procedures depend on the course level and type of student. 
  Applicants must apply using the method and by the due date advised by the University 
  each year. Closing dates for application/admission to QUT courses and other 
  admission details can be found on the 
Student 
Services website.
Top 
Related Documents 
MOPP E/4.2 Advanced standing
START-QUT program information
Real Options booklet
(for domestic undergraduate admission)
ATN Credit Transfer statement
Top 
Modification History 
Date
Sections
Source
Details
  15.09.10
  E/4.1.8
  Registrar
  Policy revised in order to clarify the role of the Registrar in accordance with  the Schedule of Delegations
  23.07.10
  E/4.1.8,
    E/4.1.10
  University Academic Board
  Policy revised to include  SAMS terminology and processes
  13.11.09
  E/4.1.7, E/4.1.9
  University Academic Board
  Revised policy
  04.12.08
  E/4.1.2
  Chair,  University Academic Board
  Revised  admission criteria relating to English proficiency (endorsed  by Vice-Chancellor&rsquo;s Advisory Committee 02.12.08)
  27.02.08
  E/4.1.2, E/4.1.5
  Registrar
  Editorial amendment to provide additional  information on special entry programs 
13.07.05
E/4.1.5
Chair, University Academic Board
Amended to reflect current practice and original intent of START-QUT scheme
13.07.05
E/4.1.6, E/4.1.7
Chair, University Academic Board
Revised policy to allow prospective undergraduate students to seek deferment of
        enrolment (endorsed in principle by University Academic Board 11.03.05)
13.07.05
E/4.1.9
Chair, University Academic Board
Amended to reflect government definition of an international student
13.07.05
E/4.1.11
Chair, University Academic Board
Minor editorial amendment consistent with leave of absence policy and revised
        Student Rule 18
19.11.04
E/4.1.2, E/4.1.11
University Academic Board
Revised policy (endorsed by Academic Policy and Procedures Committee 10.11.04)
20.06.03
All
University Academic Board
New policy (effective from 01.01.04)
Top 
    Chapter A | Chapter B | Chapter C | Chapter D | Chapter E | Chapter F | Chapter G | Chapter H | Chapter I | Appendices | Protocol for MOPP Policy | Recent Updates
    QUT Home | MOPP Home
    CRICOS No. 00213J
    Privacy | Copyright | Accessibility
    Last modified 29-Nov-2010
    Contact us | Feedback | Disclaimer
