QUT | MOPP | E/4.3 Enrolment programs
            QUT&nbsp;Home
          Contact&nbsp;us
          Search
      MOPP Home
      Protocol for MOPP Policy
      Recent Updates
      E/4.3 Enrolment programs
Chapters
A - Governance/Organisation
B - Human Resources
C - Learning/Teaching
D - Research/Development
E - Student Administration
F - Information Management
G - Financial Management
H - Physical Facilities
I - International/Community
MOPP Appendices
MOPP Protocol
MOPP Updates
[Print-friendly version]
Contact OfficerDirector, Student Business Services 
Approval Date13/11/2009 
Approval AuthorityUniversity Academic Board 
Date of Next Review01/12/2012 
4.3.1 Enrolment 
4.3.2 Submitting an enrolment 
4.3.3 Nominating an enrolment program 
4.3.4 Changing enrolment 
4.3.5 Leave of absence 
4.3.6 Cancelling enrolment 
4.3.7 Non-award enrolment 
4.3.8 International student enrolment 
4.3.9 Procedures 
Modification History 
This policy should be read in conjunction with the 
QUT 
  Student Rules
and the procedural information provided on the 
Student 
  Services website
Top 
4.3.1 Enrolment 
A student's enrolment is a selection of units which defines a program of 
study, the amount and timing of that study and the fees and charges that will 
be applied. Students are responsible for submitting a valid enrolment that is 
in accordance with student rules, policies and procedures, course requirements 
and any other criteria the University has asked the student to meet.
Top 
4.3.2 Submitting an enrolment 
All students must submit a valid enrolment each year by the applicable closing 
  date, in accordance with Student Rule 8. Commencing students must submit an 
  enrolment after receiving an offer of a place from QUT. Enrolment must be in 
  accordance with the offer of admission (see Student Rule 6 and Admission Policy 
E/4.1.6
). Students 
  who fail to enrol or re-enrol lose their place in the award course.
Top 
4.3.3 Nominating an enrolment program 
When nominating an enrolment program for a teaching period, students should 
  be familiar with course requirements and the general enrolment program requirements 
  specified in Student Rules 9 - 16. Students are responsible for rectifying any 
  discrepancies with their enrolment program in accordance with Student Rule 3.
(a) Authority to approve or change enrolment programs
The Registrar prescribes the manner of submitting enrolment programs, approves 
  changes to enrolment, and may reject or amend an enrolment program that does 
  not conform with University requirements (Student Rule 8). The enrolment process 
  is implemented by the Student Business Services Department.
Course coordinators are responsible for managing award courses. Course coordinators 
  may approve variations by a student to the standard enrolment program for that 
  course.
Unit coordinators are responsible for particular units within a course. Unit 
  coordinators may waive requisite requirements for a particular 
  unit.
More information on the duties of course and unit coordinators can be found 
  in 
B/3.5.
(b) Course requirements
Course requirements refer to the specific requirements for completing an award 
  course and are approved by University Academic Board. Requirements may include:
a specified sequence of units
conditions for enrolling in or completing particular units (for example, 
    core units)
conditions for academic progression
attendance type or mode of study.
(c) Maximum and minimum program load
Course requirements may specify the maximum number of credit points for full-time 
  enrolment and/or the minimum number of credit points for part-time enrolment 
  (Student Rule 13). Student enrolment must fall within the parameters specified 
  in course requirements except with the approval of the executive dean.
Part-time students are normally expected to undertake 50 per cent of the standard 
  credit points for the full-time course. Except with the approval of the executive dean 
  of faculty, students should enrol in at least 25 per cent of the standard credit 
  points for the full-time course. In undertaking a reduced enrolment load, students 
  must not breach the maximum time limits for completing an award course in 
E/4.4
(d) Concurrent enrolment
Concurrent enrolment in two or more QUT courses is permitted except where the 
  total currently enrolled study load at any given point exceeds 60 credit points, 
  in which case the approval of the course coordinator of each course is required.
(e) Requisites on units of study
Students must ensure that they satisfy unit requisite requirements 
  stated in Student Rule 12 and in specific course requirements.
(f) Right of the University to amend enrolment program
If conditions specified in Student Rule 16 have not been met, the Registrar 
  may amend a student's enrolment program.
(g) Flexible  learning environment for special categories of students
Where possible, the University will provide a flexible  learning environment for specified categories of students whose external  commitments may impact on their academic performance. Such students include  elite athletes and defence reservists. Further information on the support  provided by the University can be found on the Student  Services website.
Top 
4.3.4 Changing enrolment 
Students may amend their enrolment program in accordance with the published 
  deadlines for adding or withdrawing from units. Changes to enrolment will be 
  made in accordance with Student Rules 10 and 11.
(a) Adding and substituting units
A student may add a unit in accordance with Student Rule 10.
(b) Withdrawing from units
Students may withdraw from units prior to the published deadline in accordance 
  with Student Rule 11(1)(a). A status of "withdrawn" is recorded 
  against the units concerned. A "withdrawn" unit is not included 
  in the calculation of the student's GPA and does not appear on the student's 
  official academic record.
If the withdrawal occurs after the published deadline then, in accordance with 
  Student Rule 11(1)(b), a status of "withdrawn failure" will be assigned 
  to the unit. A student can request a late withdrawal without academic penalty 
  if they can demonstrate that exceptional circumstances exist (see Student Rule 
  11(2)).
(c) Change of attendance mode/change of attendance type
Students who wish to change attendance mode or attendance type may require faculty 
  approval. Applications would not normally be accepted in the first teaching 
  period of enrolment (refer to Admissions policy 
E/4.1
  Definitions of a full-time or part-time student, and attendance mode, can be 
  found in Student Rule 2.
(d) Transfer to another campus
Students who wish to change to another campus may apply to do so in writing 
  to the Student Business Services Department. Faculties will determine applications. 
  Applications would not normally be accepted in the first teaching period of 
  enrolment (refer to Admissions policy 
E/4.1
Top 
4.3.5 Leave of absence 
See 
Student Rule 18
and 
E/4.5
Top 
4.3.6 Cancelling enrolment 
Students may cancel their enrolment in a course at any time by notifying the 
  Registrar, in accordance with Student Rule 19. If cancellation occurs after 
  the published withdrawal date for the relevant teaching period, then fail grades 
  may be assigned unless the student demonstrates that exceptional circumstances 
  exist.
Once an enrolment is cancelled, the student loses their place in the award 
  course and they must apply for readmission should they wish to return to the 
same course (E/4.1.11).
Top 
4.3.7 Non-award enrolment 
Non-award students are generally subject to the University's Student Rules including, for some
  programs of non-award studies, rules relating to unsatisfactory academic performance. For further details
refer to the Student Services website.
Where a student is excluded from an award course at QUT, the student is not permitted to enrol as
  a non-award student in any unit of that course, except at the discretion of the executive dean of faculty
  responsible for the course.
For admission of non-award students refer to Admissions policy 
(E/4.1).
Top 
4.3.8 International student enrolment 
International students holding a  student visa must enrol in a program of study, which ensures completion within  the timeframe specified within their electronic Confirmation of Enrolment  (eCoE). QUT is required to monitor  the study load of international students in accordance with the requirements of  the National Code 2007 and advise the Australian Government where an  international student does not meet these requirements. For further details refer to the Student  Services website (Course  progress policy and procedures – international students).
  International students attending QUT who achieve permanent residency during 
  their course are permitted to proceed with their studies as quota students provided 
  that they are not subject to probationary enrolment or exclusion and that they 
  meet all normal enrolment requirements. Students who do not satisfy these provisions 
  will be required to compete for a quota place (see 
  E/4.1.2
  for information on admission criteria). 
Students who receive their permanent residency approval after the census date for the relevant unit of study will be required to pay the full international tuition fee for that semester.
Top 
4.3.9 Procedures 
Enrolment of students at QUT is managed by the Student Business Services Department. Information on general requirements, key dates, changing or cancelling enrolment, is available from Student Centres or by referring to the 
Student Services website
All enrolment submissions are undertaken via QUT Virtual unless the student receives advice to the contrary from the University.
The Registrar may reject a student's enrolment program where the student is not validly enrolled.
Top 
Modification History 
Date
Sections
Source
Details
  13.11.09
  E/4.3.3, E/4.3.8
  University Academic Board
  Revised policy
  27.02.08
  E/4.3.3
  Registrar
  Editorial amendment to  provide additional information relating to students in special entry programs
26.05.06
E/4.3.7
Student Business Services Department
Editorial amendment (consistent with policy E/6.7.1)
01.07.05
E/4.3.5
University Academic Board
Revised policy relating to leave of absence and relocated to new policy E/4.5
15.06.05
All
Student Business Services Department
Policy reviewed (no change required) - endorsed by Academic Policy and Procedures Committee
        15.06.05
20.12.04
E/4.3.8
Registrar's Office
Editorial amendment (consistent with Higher Education Support Act 2003 and related Guidelines)
19.11.04
E/4.3.7, E/4.3.8, E/4.3.9
University Academic Board
Revised policy (rescinded former E/4.3.7 Alternative studies and re-numbered remaining sections;
        added additional text to E/4.3.9 to reflect Student Rule 8(3); endorsed by Academic Policy and
        Procedures Committee 10.11.2004)
20.06.03
All
University Academic Board
New policy (effective from 01.01.2004)
Top 
    Chapter A | Chapter B | Chapter C | Chapter D | Chapter E | Chapter F | Chapter G | Chapter H | Chapter I | Appendices | Protocol for MOPP Policy | Recent Updates
    QUT Home | MOPP Home
    CRICOS No. 00213J
    Privacy | Copyright | Accessibility
    Last modified 30-Nov-2010
    Contact us | Feedback | Disclaimer
