QUT | MOPP | E/4.5 Leave of absence
            QUT&nbsp;Home
          Contact&nbsp;us
          Search
      MOPP Home
      Protocol for MOPP Policy
      Recent Updates
      E/4.5 Leave of absence
Chapters
A - Governance/Organisation
B - Human Resources
C - Learning/Teaching
D - Research/Development
E - Student Administration
F - Information Management
G - Financial Management
H - Physical Facilities
I - International/Community
MOPP Appendices
MOPP Protocol
MOPP Updates
[Print-friendly version]
Contact OfficerDirector, Student Business Services 
Approval Date13/11/2009 
Approval AuthorityUniversity Academic Board 
Date of Next Review01/12/2012 
4.5.1 Application for leave 
4.5.2 Determining applications 
4.5.3 Consequences of taking leave of absence 
4.5.4 Effect of deferment periods prior to first enrolment 
Modification History 
This policy should be read in conjunction with the  QUT 
  Student Rules and the procedural information provided on the  Student 
Services website .
4.5.1 Application for leave 
Leave of absence provides a mechanism for students to respond to various external circumstances that
  may affect their capacity to undertake their studies. Students may apply to the Registrar for leave
  of absence from an award course as specified in 
Student
  Rule 18
However, due to Australian Government visa regulations, international students are strictly limited in
  the circumstances in which they can apply for leave of absence, and are required to meet conditions
  other than those described in this policy.
Top 
4.5.2 Determining applications 
The Registrar determines the student's application for leave of absence.
(a) General conditions for leave of absence
The Registrar will normally act without referral to approve leave of absence applications where
the student is enrolled in an undergraduate award course, and
the student is applying for leave of absence for a period of no more than one year,
    and
the student has completed at least one teaching period of enrolment in the award course,
      and
the leave period requested, when combined with earlier periods of leave in the same
    course, does not exceed one year.
(b) Leave of absence after commencement of studies but prior to completion of first teaching period
    of enrolment
If the student has commenced studies, but has not completed at least one teaching period of enrolment
  in the award course, leave of absence may be approved if the Registrar is satisfied that the student
  has demonstrated exceptional circumstance for taking the leave. All other conditions listed in (a)
  above must be met before the Registrar may approve leave in these circumstances.
(c) Approval of leave of absence in other circumstances
If the student seeks leave of absence in other circumstances, that is
for leave in excess of one year
for leave from a postgraduate award course, or
where the leave period in the application combined with earlier periods of leave in
    the same course exceeds one year,
  the student must demonstrate that exceptional circumstances exist which necessitate taking the leave.
  In these cases, the Registrar must refer the request to the relevant faculty for recommendation, and
  should approve the request only upon receiving positive advice from the relevant faculty.
Top 
4.5.3 Consequences of taking leave of absence 
Where leave of absence is approved
a place in the course will be held for the student for the approved period (normally
      up to one year). At the end of the period, students are invited to re-enrol. If they do not re-enrol,
      the student loses their place in the course.
a student is deemed to have withdrawn from enrolment in all units in accordance with
      Student Rule 11. In cases where leave of absence is granted after the published withdrawal date
    for the relevant teaching period, failing grades may be assigned unless the student demonstrates
    exceptional circumstances for the proposed period of leave.
the applicant is not an enrolled student of the university for the approved period
    of absence.
However, a student must apply for re-admission to the award course if
the student does not apply for leave of absence before withdrawing from enrolment
    in all units in a teaching period, or
the student fails to re-enrol at the conclusion of an approved leave of absence.
Top 
4.5.4 Effect of deferment periods prior to first enrolment 
A deferment period prior to first enrolment by a student in an undergraduate award course (E/4.1.7) is not taken into account in determining whether the conditions described in this policy for
  approval of leave of absence have been met.
Top 
Modification History 
Date
Sections
Source
Details
   13.11.09
   All
   University Academic Board
  Periodic review &ndash; no change required
01.07.05
All
University Academic Board
New policy effective from 01.01.06 (approved subject to Council approval of revised
        Student Rule 18 – approved by Council 26.10.05); replaces former policy E/4.3.5
Top 
    Chapter A | Chapter B | Chapter C | Chapter D | Chapter E | Chapter F | Chapter G | Chapter H | Chapter I | Appendices | Protocol for MOPP Policy | Recent Updates
    QUT Home | MOPP Home
    CRICOS No. 00213J
    Privacy | Copyright | Accessibility
    Last modified 12-May-2010
    Contact us | Feedback | Disclaimer
