QUT | MOPP | E/5.1 Class timetabling, allocation and registration policy
            QUT&nbsp;Home
          Contact&nbsp;us
          Search
      MOPP Home
      Protocol for MOPP Policy
      Recent Updates
      E/5.1 Class timetabling, allocation and registration policy
Chapters
A - Governance/Organisation
B - Human Resources
C - Learning/Teaching
D - Research/Development
E - Student Administration
F - Information Management
G - Financial Management
H - Physical Facilities
I - International/Community
MOPP Appendices
MOPP Protocol
MOPP Updates
[Print-friendly version]
Contact OfficerTimetabling Manager, Facilities Management 
Approval Date14/11/2008 
Approval AuthorityUniversity Academic Board 
Date of Next Review01/12/2011 
5.1.1 Policy principles
5.1.2 Responsibilities for class timetabling, allocation and registration 
5.1.3 Travel between campuses 
5.1.4 Equity considerations 
5.1.5 Development and publication of class timetable 
5.1.6 Opening of class allocation and registration 
5.1.7 Resolving timetable clashes 
5.1.8 Timetable changes 
5.1.9 Teaching times 
5.1.10 Teaching space and room allocation 
Related Documents 
Modification History 
5.1.1 Policy principles 
As a University which offers  an extensive and flexible academic program across a number of campuses, QUT aims to recognise the needs and interests  of a wide range of stakeholders in developing its class and examination  timetables.
 QUT's class timetabling,  allocation and registration policy incorporates the following principles.
  The University&rsquo;s corporate timetabling and class allocation systems must be used for the scheduling of all teaching activities.
  The timetable aims to provide for the fair, reasonable and inclusive treatment of both students and staff.
  The timetable for the forthcoming academic period will be published at a time, and in a manner, that provides students with the necessary information to plan and finalise their enrolment. 
  Students should expect to complete the standard study program within the specified time and to have reasonable  choice of electives or optional units where this is permitted in their course       structure. 
  Changes to the timetable after publication must be kept to a minimum. 
  Scheduling of teaching activities will make efficient and practical use of the University's teaching resources and facilities, and may occur across the University&rsquo;s nominated teaching times and at any campus.
Specific policy  information relating to examination timetabling is at
E/6.1 .
Top 
5.1.2 Responsibilities for class timetabling, allocation and registration 
Timetabling Manager 
The Timetabling Manager coordinates University timetabling and is responsible  for:
  managing timetabling and associated       business processes across the University 
  maintaining and developing the       corporate timetabling system, including training and support for system       users 
  preparing and distributing timelines       for data preparation 
  ensuring that all QUT teaching space is       used efficiently. 
Student Business Services
Student Business Services is  responsible for the overall management of the corporate class allocation and  registration system.
Campus Services 
  Campus Services coordinates timetabling activities and is responsible for:
  room allocation (including ad hoc room bookings and external room bookings) 
  implementing approved timetable       changes. 
Executive deans and heads of school
Executive deans and heads of  school are responsible for approving any necessary changes to the published  timetable (see E/5.1.8 for further information).
Heads of school are also  required to approve the school&rsquo;s draft timetable prior to publication.
Faculties / schools / QUTIC
Faculties, schools and QUTIC are responsible for managing, maintaining and  monitoring the operation of the corporate class allocation and registration  system as it applies to their individual units and students, including:
  collecting and entering data into the       corporate timetabling and class allocation and registration systems within       the specified timeframes
  coordinating timetabling activities for       double degrees in consultation with the partner school or faculty &nbsp;
  checking draft timetables in       collaboration with partner schools/faculties. 
Course coordinators, subject  area coordinators and unit coordinators 
  Course coordinators are responsible for:
  ensuring accurate data are provided       when the timetable is being prepared 
  making timely adjustments to the draft       timetable, including changes arising from staff or student requests for       reasonable adjustments 
  making timely adjustments to the       published timetable if necessary
  advising timetabling staff of surplus       classes by Week 3 of the relevant teaching period.
Subject area coordinators and  unit coordinators assist course coordinators in resolving operational matters,  including timetabling matters&nbsp;(see B/3.5 ).
Academic staff 
  Academic staff are responsible for checking individual teaching timetables and  advising course, subject area, or unit coordinators of any problems.
Students 
  Students should check the published timetable and class allocation and &nbsp;discuss with their unit, subject area, or  course coordinator &nbsp;any concerns relating  to issues such as clashes between core units, unreasonable travel between  campuses to attend core classes, and &nbsp;reasonable requests arising from family  responsibilities, religious obligations, or disabilities.
Note: &nbsp;Disability Officers should arrange room  adjustments in advance, following interviews with students early in the year.
Where required, students must  also ensure that they are properly registered for classes. 
Top 
5.1.3 Travel between campuses 
Students and staff may be  required to attend lectures in core units at more than one campus on the same  day. A minimum travel time should be provided as follows.
  between Gardens Point and Kelvin Grove       - 1 hour 
  between Gardens Point and Caboolture -       2 hours 
  between Kelvin Grove and Caboolture -&nbsp; 2 hours. 
Approaches that minimise the  need for students to travel between campuses include scheduling classes on the  appropriate campus (ie taking the class to the students rather than bringing  students to the class) and avoiding split lectures (ie conducting a single  two-hour lecture on one day rather than two one-hour lectures on different  days).
Service provider schools and  service recipient schools should liaise with each other to ensure that the need  for students to travel between campuses is minimised. 
Top 
5.1.4 Equity considerations 
Consistent with University  policies on equal opportunity and diversity (see A/8), and various anti-discrimination  laws, QUT's timetabling, class allocation and registration procedures aim to make  reasonable accommodations for staff and students with family responsibilities,  religious obligations, or disabilities.
Students and staff seeking such  accommodations should provide information and requests in advance of the timetable  being developed. Staff require prior approval from their head of school or  manager before submitting such requests. Requests from:
  students related to disabilities are       made to the Disability Officers 
  staff related to disabilities are made       to the relevant unit or course coordinator 
  staff and students related to religious       obligations are made to the Equity Director's office 
  staff and students related to family       responsibilities are made to the relevant unit or course coordinator, or faculty/school       responsible for timetabling the unit/s. 
Top 
5.1.5 Development and publication of class timetable 
Draft timetable 
A draft timetable is prepared for staff to review during Week 8 of the semester  preceding that in which it will be implemented. The draft timetable enables  faculties and schools to ensure that provision has been made for all teaching  activities and to identify any clashes within standard programs. The head of  school is required to approve the school&rsquo;s draft timetable prior to publication.
The Timetabling Officer should  be consulted where the timetabling needs of a faculty or school differ from  standard.
Publication of timetable 
  The University class timetable is published as follows:
  Semester 1 and associated teaching       periods timetable - Week 11 of preceding semester (Semester 2) 
  Semester 2 and associated teaching       periods timetable - Week 11 of preceding semester (Semester 1) 
  Summer Program and associated teaching       periods - Week 11 of preceding semester (Semester 2) (to correspond with       the beginning of Summer Program enrolment) 
Official class timetables are  published and updated daily on the QUT Home Page and QUT Virtual.
Top 
5.1.6 Opening of class  allocation and registration 
Class allocation and registration  is opened to students as follows (subject to negotiation):
  Semester 1 and associated teaching       periods &ndash; Week 7 of preceding semester (Summer Program)
  Semester 2 and associated teaching       periods &ndash; Week 13 of preceding semester (Semester 1)
  Summer Program and associated teaching       periods &ndash; Week 13 of preceding semester (Semester 2)
Top 
5.1.7 Resolving timetable clashes 
In resolving timetable  clashes, the following principles will be applied:
  teaching activities have precedence       over non-teaching activities 
  larger classes have precedence over       smaller classes 
  first year units have precedence over       later year units 
  activities that occupy large blocks of       time have precedence over those that occupy small blocks of time 
  full-semester classes take precedence       over other activities 
  activities with more teaching weeks       have precedence over activities with fewer teaching weeks 
  specialist teaching space shall be used       for its designated purpose 
  activities requiring specialised       teaching facilities (eg media equipped lecture theatres) in rooms so       equipped have precedence over those requiring standard facilities 
  access for students with disabilities       takes precedence over other considerations, unless this causes       unjustifiable hardship. 
Top 
5.1.8 Timetable changes 
Changes to the published  timetable must be kept to a minimum to avoid any adverse impact on students.
Changes proposed after the  timetable is published but prior to the opening of classes for registration  must be approved by the relevant head of school. Changes proposed after the  opening of classes for registration must be approved by the relevant executive  dean or  assistant dean (teaching and learning) (see Facilities Management website for further  information). &nbsp;Executive deans, assistant deans (teaching and learning)  and heads of school are responsible for ensuring that changes are made only for  valid reasons such as:
  unexpected staff turnover 
  availability of sessional academic       staff
  unexpected surge / decline in student       numbers enrolled 
  a location is a health or safety hazard 
  a unit is no longer deemed viable 
  reasonable adjustments to accommodate       students with special needs. 
Faculties / schools that  provide service units are required to liaise with their partner faculty / school  before making any timetable changes.
The change procedure to be  followed is provided on the Facilities Management web site. Campus Services  maintains a record of all changes.
Top 
5.1.9 Teaching times 
The University&rsquo;s normal teaching times are from Monday to Friday  between the hours of 8am and 10pm on each campus. Classes may be scheduled at  any time during these hours. Provided sufficient resources are available,  however, classes may be confined to a core period covering Monday to Friday  between the hours of 9am and 9pm.
Classes should be spread  evenly over a full week and may be scheduled on weekends where necessary.  Classes should be in multiples of 30 minute blocks that commence on the hour or  the half hour. Classes should vacate a teaching space 10 minutes prior to the  end of the allotted time for that class.
Class free period
  Each campus maintains a class  free period of at least one hour each week during a semester. Gardens Point  Campus has an additional class free period between 1pm and 2pm on Friday. These  periods are set aside for organised student activities. Formal class activities  should not be scheduled during class free periods unless they are activities of  a long duration that should not be interrupted, or resource constraints  necessitate their allocation at these times.
Flexible scheduling 
  Classes in courses advertised as being available for part-time students should  normally be scheduled so that there are sufficient classes at appropriate times  for all students to complete the course at a normal progression rate, provided  enrolment is viable..
Top 
5.1.10 Teaching space and room allocation 
The Campus Services section of  Facilities Management has responsibility for all general teaching space in  order to ensure efficient use of this resource through timetabling and room  allocation (see H/3.3.2 ).
All teaching space must be  incorporated into the timetabling system. Teaching space identified as  specialist space is reserved for use by classes conducted by the specialist  school. Other schools wishing to use specialist space must make arrangements  with the school that controls this space before they can be timetabled to use  the space.
Room allocation is the  responsibility of central timetabling staff in the Campus Services section.  Conflicts will be resolved by negotiation between the parties concerned and, if  required, mediated by the Timetabling Manager. Conflicts which cannot be  resolved in this manner will be mediated by the Associate Director - Campus  Services. If resolution is not achieved, a decision will be made by the  Registrar.
Use of rooms for ad hoc  purposes 
  Rooms that are not already in use in any teaching period may be booked for ad  hoc purposes.
Timetabled activities take  precedence over ad hoc requirements.  See H/6.2.2 for policy on catering  arrangements in classrooms.
External hirers 
  The University's requirements for rooms and facilities take precedence over  their use by external persons, groups or bodies. No adjustments to the academic  timetable will be made to accommodate external use apart from those exceptional  circumstances specifically approved by the Associate Director - Campus  Services.
See H/3.2.5 for policy on hire of  facilities by external users.
Top 
Related Documents 
MOPP E/2.1 QUT Student Charter
MOPP E/6.1 Administration and timetabling of examinations
  QUT Handbook
  Equity Services  web page ( http://www.equity.qut.edu.au/everyone/publications/ )
Top 
Modification History 
Date
Sections
Source
Details
  09.06.10
  E/5.1.8
  Chairperson, University Academic Board
  Policy revised to include addition of ability for executive dean to delegate  decisions to assistant dean teaching and learning
  14.11.08
  All
  University Academic Board
  Revised policy, effective from 01.01.09 (endorsed by Academic Policy and  Procedures Committee 23.06.08)
   17.05.07
  E/5.1.2
  Vice-Chancellor
  Updated policy to remove  references to Student Guild activities
19.03.04
All
University Academic Board
Revised policy (effective immediately) - replaces former E/5.1, 
      E/5.2, E/5.4, E/5.5, E/5.6 and E/5.7 (endorsed by Academic Policy and Procedures 
      Committee 12.03.04)
22.08.02
E/5.1.4
Chairperson, University Academic Board
Revised policy (endorsed by University Academic Board 31.07.02)
06.10.00
E/5.1
University Academic Board
Approved new policy
Top 
    Chapter A | Chapter B | Chapter C | Chapter D | Chapter E | Chapter F | Chapter G | Chapter H | Chapter I | Appendices | Protocol for MOPP Policy | Recent Updates
    QUT Home | MOPP Home
    CRICOS No. 00213J
    Privacy | Copyright | Accessibility
    Last modified 23-Jun-2010
    Contact us | Feedback | Disclaimer
