QUT | MOPP | E/6.3 Alternative arrangements for assessment
            QUT&nbsp;Home
          Contact&nbsp;us
          Search
      MOPP Home
      Protocol for MOPP Policy
      Recent Updates
      E/6.3 Alternative arrangements for assessment
Chapters
A - Governance/Organisation
B - Human Resources
C - Learning/Teaching
D - Research/Development
E - Student Administration
F - Information Management
G - Financial Management
H - Physical Facilities
I - International/Community
MOPP Appendices
MOPP Protocol
MOPP Updates
[Print-friendly version]
Contact OfficerDirector, Student Business Services 
Approval Date04/04/2008 
Approval AuthorityUniversity Academic Board 
Date of Next Review01/01/2012 
6.3.1 Alternative arrangements for assessment 
6.3.2 Deferred examinations 
6.3.3 Assessment for students with disabilities 
6.3.4 Reasonable adjustments for students from non-English speaking backgrounds 
6.3.5 Lost, stolen or damaged assessment items
Related Documents 
Modification History 
This policy should be read in conjunction with the 
QUT 
  Student Rules
and the procedural information provided on the 
Student 
  Services website.
Top 
6.3.1 Alternative arrangements for assessment 
The University can make alternative arrangements for assessment in the following 
  cases:
where the student was unable to attend an examination due to exceptional 
    circumstances (deferred examinations)
where adjustments are required for students with disabilities
where adjustments are required for students from non-English speaking backgrounds
where an assessment item is lost, stolen or damaged
where external       commitments may impact on a student's ability to undertake or complete       assessment in specified circumstances (eg for elite athletes or defence       reservists). For further information, see the Student Services website. 
In addition, alternative examination sittings may be arranged for students 
  with religious obligations which preclude attendance at a particular time. More 
  information can be found in the examination timetabling policy (see 
E/6.1).
Top 
6.3.2 Deferred examinations 
Students who through medical or other exceptional circumstances are unable 
  to attend an examination at the prescribed time may apply to sit for a deferred 
  examination. Applications are considered by executive deans of faculty (see Student Rule 
  33).
A deferred examination is regarded as a significant concession to a student 
  and, as such, will only be granted when a properly documented and timely case 
  is made by the applicant. Students will not be granted an unlimited number of 
  deferred examinations over the course of their studies.
Applications for deferred examinations must include detailed documentation 
  of the medical or other grounds upon which the application is based. Applications 
  should normally be submitted prior to or within three working days of the examination 
  date.
Normally, deferred examinations are not granted to candidates who misread examination 
  timetables.
Requests for deferral of an approved  deferred examination will not normally be granted. In circumstances where a  student is unable to attend an approved deferred examination, it is expected  that the student will make a case for withdrawal from the unit without academic  penalty (see Student Rule 11(2)).
Documentation requirements and application forms are available on the 
Student 
  Services website
Top 
6.3.3 Assessment for students with disabilities 
Students with permanent or temporary disability have the right to alternative 
arrangements for assessment which provide equality of opportunity to enable students 
to fulfil course requirements.
Students should contact the relevant campus Disability Officer early in the 
  teaching period and preferably prior to the published date for withdrawal without 
  financial penalty for the relevant teaching period.
Alternative arrangements for assessment are negotiated between the student, 
  Disability Officer and the course coordinator.
Students are required to present evidence to the Disability Officer, usually 
  in the form of documentation from a medical or other relevant specialist practitioner 
  which substantiates the nature of the special need. The University adheres to 
  principles of confidentiality and privacy and documentation together with records 
  of interviews are maintained by the Disability Officer.
The Disability Officer will develop a service plan which includes recommendations 
  for alternative arrangements for assessment for approval by the relevant course 
  coordinator. Service plans are reviewed and re-negotiated each semester. The 
  student will be advised in writing of any alternative arrangements for their 
  assessment.
Further information on support provided by the University for students with 
  disabilities is contained in the 
Guide 
  for Students with Disabilities
. Refer also to University policy on disability 
  services (see 
A/8.6
a) Centrally organised assessment
For centrally organised examinations, responsibility for the conduct and administration 
  of alternative assessment provisions for students with disabilities, including 
  the costs of employing invigilators, personal assistants and providing examination 
  materials, rests with the Student Business Services Department.
b) School-based assessment
For assessment other than central examinations, administrative and financial 
  responsibility, including organisation of appropriate equipment and support 
  personnel, rests with faculties and schools.
Top 
6.3.4 Reasonable adjustments for students from non-English speaking backgrounds 
QUT supports the provision of reasonable adjustments in examinations for students 
from non-English speaking backgrounds. Guidelines for assessing the need of students 
to be provided with reasonable adjustments are available from the 
Student 
 Services website and are intended to provide a framework for faculties 
to construct adjustments to examination processes for students from non-English 
speaking backgrounds.
The assessment of a student's situation, and the decision on a reasonable 
  adjustment, is made by the course coordinator on the advice of the coordinators 
  of the units in which the student is enrolled.
Where a student is completing a double degree program, or where units in more 
  than one faculty are included, the student must approach the relevant faculty 
  for adjustments in units offered by it.
The procedures set down by 
Student 
  Business Services Department (Examinations Section)
for the identification 
  of students provided with special considerations will apply, and Student Business 
  Services Department is responsible for implementing these procedures.
Definitions
For the purpose of this policy, international and domestic students from non-English 
  speaking backgrounds are defined as follows
International students from non-English speaking backgrounds are students 
    who have been educated in a country where English is not the first language 
    and who speak a language other than English at home.
Domestic students from non-English speaking backgrounds are students who 
    meet the DEEWR definition, that is, students who: 
were born outside Australia;
arrived in Australia up to 10 years prior to the date of application; 
        and
speak a language other than English at home.
Principles for the provision of adjustments
In an assessment situation where time is limited the speed at which a student 
  can respond is a factor in their result for that assessment. Students from non-English speaking backgrounds 
  may take additional time to translate the examination paper, and similarly to 
  translate their responses. The time taken for such translation can constitute 
  a disadvantage, and a lack of equal opportunity. Any adjustments provided should 
  be sufficient to overcome disadvantage and provide equal opportunity but should 
  not constitute an advantage for the student.
Any adjustments are to assist 'translation time' and do not constitute a lowering 
  of standards for learning outcomes associated with literacy/communication skills.
Adjustments are to be applied to both international and domestic undergraduate 
  and postgraduate students.
Any requirement for assessment of need is made on an individual basis. However, 
  it may be appropriate to standardise the adjustments for cohorts of students.
Not all students of non-English speaking backgrounds will need adjustments. 
  Nor is it anticipated that students would require adjustments for the entire 
  course of study. Rather, there is an expectation that students will take responsibility 
  for engaging assistance to aid them in developing proficiency with the English 
  language. With that in mind, agreements for adjustments would not extend beyond 
  the teaching period in which they applied and students are expected to reapply, 
  if necessary, each teaching period.
Where an examination is explicitly testing learning outcomes related to literacy/communication 
  skills, at speed, under pressure, then the adjustments for extra time and/or 
  the provision of a dictionary may be unwarranted.
Where speed of student response is not explicitly being tested as a learning 
  outcome, faculties should consider ways and means of structuring the assessment 
  items so that speed of student response is eliminated as an advantage/disadvantage.
The proficiency level of the individual students, the type and purpose of 
  the examination, plus other considerations should inform the scope of the adjustment 
  to be provided.
Adjustments
The only adjustments provided by this policy are
the provision of a bilingual dictionary and extra time; or
the provision of a bilingual dictionary; or
the provision of extra time.
Top 
6.3.5 Lost, stolen or damaged assessment items 
All staff who handle student  assessment items have a responsibility to exercise due diligence in handling  those items to ensure they are not lost or damaged. The University  provides an assignment submission and collection service which provides  security for student's work and streamlines the collection and distribution  process for both staff and students. The service is located with the IT  Helpdesk on each campus.
In some cases, however, there may  still be instances in which assessment items are lost. Students should keep a  copy of all written assessment items before lodging them with staff. In some  instances, schools or faculties have developed systems to record assessment  submission. The University should inform students about assessment processes,  and students should ensure that they are aware of these processes. 
Where a student's assessment submission can not be located and there is a strong case made that the
  item had been submitted, the unit coordinator involved should consult the course coordinator and advise
  the head of school. The student should be included as soon as possible in the negotiation of steps
  to be taken to resolve the matter. Options to deal with lost assessment may include:
giving the student a notional mark for the lost assessment item based on the average
      of their previous assessment
giving the student the opportunity to resubmit the assessment item
giving the student the opportunity to redo the assessment item
setting an alternative assessment item to be submitted within a set period.
The student's preferred option should be adopted wherever possible. However, if the unit coordinator
  concludes that the student's option is unsuitable having regard to assessment objectives and outcomes
  (for example, where the item forms the only assessment for one of the unit objectives), a written justification
  for the rejection of the student's chosen method should be made by the unit coordinator and provided
  to the student through the head of school.
In the case where there is not reasonable support for the student's claim that the assessment task
  was properly submitted, the unit coordinator and course coordinator may still recommend to the head
  of school that the student be offered the chance to resubmit or repeat the assessment task.Top 
Related Documents 
E/6.1 Administration and  timetabling of examinations
Top 
Modification History 
Date
Sections
Source
Details
  04.04.08
  E/6.3.2, E/6.3.5
  University Academic Board
  Revised policy &ndash; effective  from 01.01.09 (endorsed by Academic Policy and Procedures Committee 10.03.08)
  27.02.08
  E/6.3.1
  Registrar
  Editorial amendment to  provide additional information relating to students in special entry programs
01.12.05
E/6.3.5
University Academic Board
Revised policy (endorsed by Academic Policy and Procedures Committee 02.11.2005)
26.09.03
All
University Academic Board
New policy (effective 01.01.2004) (endorsed by Academic Policy and Procedure 
      Committee 17.09.2003)
Top 
    Chapter A | Chapter B | Chapter C | Chapter D | Chapter E | Chapter F | Chapter G | Chapter H | Chapter I | Appendices | Protocol for MOPP Policy | Recent Updates
    QUT Home | MOPP Home
    CRICOS No. 00213J
    Privacy | Copyright | Accessibility
    Last modified 29-Nov-2010
    Contact us | Feedback | Disclaimer
