QUT | MOPP | E/6.1 Administration and timetabling of examinations
            QUT&nbsp;Home
          Contact&nbsp;us
          Search
      MOPP Home
      Protocol for MOPP Policy
      Recent Updates
      E/6.1 Administration and timetabling of examinations
Chapters
A - Governance/Organisation
B - Human Resources
C - Learning/Teaching
D - Research/Development
E - Student Administration
F - Information Management
G - Financial Management
H - Physical Facilities
I - International/Community
MOPP Appendices
MOPP Protocol
MOPP Updates
[Print-friendly version]
Contact OfficerDirector, Student Business Services 
Approval Date13/11/2009 
Approval AuthorityUniversity Academic Board 
Date of Next Review01/12/2012 
6.1.1 Organisation of examinations 
6.1.2 Central examinations 
6.1.3 School-based examinations 
6.1.4 Timelines for examination timetabling 
6.1.5 Draft examination timetable 
6.1.6 Final examination timetable 
6.1.7 Preparation of central examination timetable 
6.1.8 Students to be familiar with timetable 
6.1.9 Alternative examination sittings for students with religious obligations 
6.1.10 Examination locations 
6.1.11 Timetabling of supplementary and deferred examinations 
Modification History 
This policy should be read in conjunction with the 
QUT 
  Student Rules
and the procedural information provided on the 
Student 
  Services website.
Top 
6.1.1 Organisation of examinations 
Academic staff of the University are responsible for setting appropriate assessment 
that will encourage learning. A significant amount of assessment is conducted 
through formal examinations. Units may have a combination of school based and 
centrally organised assessment items. Such information should be incorporated 
in unit outlines.
An examination may be conducted either as a school-based obligation or organised 
  centrally by the Student Business Services Department in cooperation with heads 
  of school and unit coordinators.
There are three periods set aside each year for the conduct of central examinations 
  (Student Rule 30(3)). These periods 
  are attached to the two semesters and the summer program and include the conduct of supplementary and deferred exams. The dates for these exam periods are published each year 
  in the academic calendar. Examinations falling outside these periods are organised 
  by faculties.
For policies relating to general principles of and responsibility for assessment, 
see Chapter C (C/5.1).
Top 
6.1.2 Central examinations 
A central examination means any examination administered by the Student Business 
Services Department.
The central examination system is managed through the collection each semester 
  and summer program of accurate, reliable and timely assessment data from schools.
Central examinations should have a minimum  duration of one hour. The duration of longer examinations should be in  half-hour increments from this time (ie 1.5, 2, 2.5 hours). Central  examinations should not exceed three hours in duration, exclusive of perusal.
The duration of any perusal time allowed for  central examinations should be either 10, 15 or 30 minutes.
  For centrally organised examinations, the Student Business Services Department assumes responsibility 
  for the following:
timetabling of examinations within the period designated for central examinations
publishing a timetable for the advice of students and staff (written notification 
    will be sent to students enrolled by external mode, students with disabilities 
    and to others who can demonstrate exceptional circumstances preventing reasonable 
    access to normal timetable publications)
allocation of examination rooms
printing of examination papers
supply of examination materials and stationery
provision of adequate exam supervision (invigilation)
appointment of and payment to invigilators
acting on advice from the Disabilities Officer regarding reasonable adjustments 
    for any students with a disability (E/6.3.3).
Examination timetables are compiled by the Examinations Officer in accordance, 
  as far as possible, with the timetabling guidelines for central examinations.
Top 
6.1.3 School-based examinations 
School-based examination means any examination administered by a school or faculty. 
Heads of school are responsible to the Registrar for the organisation and conduct 
of school-based assessment items, including examinations.
School-based examinations may be held during the designated central examination 
  period or at any other time specified for an examination in the notification 
  to students of assessment requirements (Student rule 30(1)). Schools must 
  assume full responsibility for examinations not coordinated by the Student Business 
  Services Department and must ensure that they do not cause a timetable clash 
  with central examinations or other school-based examinations.
Examinations for students enrolled in semesters or the summer program, other 
  than deferred or supplementary examinations, will not be held during recess 
  or designated examination preparation periods without approval from the Registrar.
The head of school is responsible for:
setting and publishing an examination timetable
ensuring that school based examinations do not cause a timetable clash 
    with central examinations
organising examination accommodation
word processing/formatting of examination papers in accordance with the 
    University standard format
printing examination papers
supply of examination materials and stationery
provision of adequate examination supervision (invigilation)
appointment of and payment to invigilators, where appropriate
acting on advice from the Disabilities Officer regarding reasonable adjustments 
  for any students with a disability (E/6.3.3).
Top 
6.1.4 Timelines for examination timetabling 
Information regarding timetabling data preparation requirements and due dates 
is issued to faculties and schools by the Student Business Services Department. 
Special timetabling requests must be submitted by faculties by the end of week 
7 of Semesters One and Two prior to commencement of timetabling. Only requests with approval of the executive dean 
of faculty/head of school will be considered.
Top 
6.1.5 Draft examination timetable 
A draft timetable for central examinations will be provided for students and 
  staff at least five weeks prior to the commencement of the examination period.
Objections to the draft timetable will be dealt with by the Examinations Officer 
  in consultation with the relevant head of school or executive dean of faculty if required.
Top 
6.1.6 Final examination timetable 
The final examination timetable is published on QUT Virtual four weeks prior to 
the commencement of the examination period. Actual publication dates will be advised 
annually and included in the Academic Calendar.
Top 
6.1.7 Preparation of central examination timetable 
The timetable for central examinations will be prepared as far as practicable according to the following
guidelines:
examinations should be held between the hours of 8am and 9pm on weekdays, and 8am and 6pm on Saturdays
examinations will not be held on Sundays or public holidays
examinations for units with high enrolments will generally be scheduled towards the beginning of
    the examination period
students should not be required to undertake more than two examinations in a single examination
    day
students should not be required to undertake examinations in which total working time exceeds six
    hours in a single examination day
there should be a minimum break of one and a half hours between examinations
students should not normally be required to undertake examinations on more than three days in succession,
    and should not normally be required to take more than four examinations in three successive days
    (unless there are constraints applied by faculty policy)
examinations should be held on the campus/es where teaching in the unit concerned is normally conducted
    (where a unit is offered on multiple campuses, students must attempt examinations at the campus aligned
    to their unit enrolment class code and location code unless otherwise advised in writing)
where units are available in more than one mode (internal, external) or taught on more than one
    campus, the same central paper is normally set and the examinations will take place simultaneously
when allocating rooms the Student Business Services Department will attempt to schedule examinations
    in locations with the most appropriate facilities. Unless advised by unit coordinators of any special
    room requirements, examinations may be assigned to lecture theatres with tablet arm seating.
objections to the timetable will be dealt with by the Examinations Officer in consultation with
    the relevant head of school or executive dean of faculty if required
examinations for students enrolled in semesters or the summer program, other than deferred or supplementary
    examinations, will not be held during recess or designated examination preparation periods without
    approval from the Registrar
reasonable adjustments to examination durations will be made arising from students' special needs,
  provided students have given advance notification (E/6.3)
students will be eligible to apply for an alternative examination sitting if their end-of-semester
    or summer program examination timetable requires them to undertake
three examinations within a 24 hour period
examinations on more than three days in succession, or
more than four exams in three successive days (unless faculty policy constraints apply).
(this guideline does not apply to assessment conducted during the teaching period).
Top 
6.1.8 Students to be familiar with timetable 
In accordance with Student Rule 30, internal students must be available to undertake 
examinations at the relevant QUT campus, or off campus location, throughout periods 
designated for central examinations and at times specified in unit outlines for 
school based examinations. External students will sit examinations at external 
examination centres at the same time as internal students.
In the case of central examinations, students are responsible for advising 
  the Student Business Services Department of any timetable clashes. Students 
  are responsible for advising the head of school of any timetabling clashes in 
  school based examinations.
Top 
6.1.9 Alternative examination sittings for students with religious obligations 
Students with religious obligations, which preclude attendance at examinations 
in accordance with the official timetable, have the right to apply for alternative 
examination arrangements (Student Rule 31).
If the examination is centrally organised, a written request for an alternative 
  examination sitting must be submitted to the Examinations Officer within 10 
  working days of the release of the final timetable and include supporting documentation 
  from the religious leader on organisational letterhead.
Students should contact their school to request altered arrangements for school 
  based examinations.
Top 
6.1.10 Examination locations 
The Registrar will control all teaching accommodation during a central examination 
period. Central examinations may be conducted in locations which are not on any 
QUT campus.
Top 
6.1.11 Timetabling of supplementary and deferred examinations 
Supplementary and deferred examinations may be held during  vacation 
periods or at any time nominated by the Registrar and published in the academic 
calendar. Timetables for supplementary/deferred examination periods are normally 
published at least two weeks prior to commencement of supplementary/deferred examinations. 
Students granted a grade of 'SA - supplementary assessment' will be included 
in the examination timetable and expected to attempt the deferred examination 
paper unless the Examinations Officer is notified by faculties/schools that alternative 
arrangements for assessment have been made.
For policy on granting supplementary exams see 
E/6.4
  or for granting deferred exams see 
E/6.3
and the 
Student 
  Services web site
Top 
Modification History 
Date
Sections
Source
Details
   13.11.09
  E/6.1.1, E/6.1.2, E/6.1.4, E/6.1.11
   University Academic Board
   Revised policy
07.10.05
E/6.1.7
University Academic Board
Revised policy regarding eligibility for alternative examination sittings (endorsed by Academic
        Policy and Procedures Committee 14.09.05)
26.09.03
All
University Academic Board
New policy (effective from 01.01.2004)
Top 
    Chapter A | Chapter B | Chapter C | Chapter D | Chapter E | Chapter F | Chapter G | Chapter H | Chapter I | Appendices | Protocol for MOPP Policy | Recent Updates
    QUT Home | MOPP Home
    CRICOS No. 00213J
    Privacy | Copyright | Accessibility
    Last modified 12-May-2010
    Contact us | Feedback | Disclaimer
