QUT | MOPP | E/6.7 Unsatisfactory academic performance and exclusion
            QUT&nbsp;Home
          Contact&nbsp;us
          Search
      MOPP Home
      Protocol for MOPP Policy
      Recent Updates
      E/6.7 Unsatisfactory academic performance and exclusion
Chapters
A - Governance/Organisation
B - Human Resources
C - Learning/Teaching
D - Research/Development
E - Student Administration
F - Information Management
G - Financial Management
H - Physical Facilities
I - International/Community
MOPP Appendices
MOPP Protocol
MOPP Updates
[Print-friendly version]
Contact OfficerDirector, Student Business Services 
Approval Date04/04/2008 
Approval AuthorityUniversity Academic Board 
Date of Next Review01/01/2010 
6.7.1 Unsatisfactory academic performance 
6.7.2 Monitoring  academic performance  
6.7.3 Designated  units in award courses  
6.7.4 Probationary  enrolment  
6.7.5 Exclusion 
6.7.6 Right to appeal 
6.7.7 Lodging an appeal 
6.7.8 Appeals against exclusion for unsatisfactory academic performance 
6.7.9 Status of students awaiting the outcome of an appeal 
Related Documents 
Modification History
This policy should be read in conjunction with the QUT Student Rules and the procedural information provided on the 
Student Services website.
6.7.1 Unsatisfactory academic performance 
This policy applies to students enrolled in an award course or in a structured program of non-award
  studies (for example, a university diploma, faculty or school-based certificate, programs offered by
the QUT International College). For information on non-award enrolment see MOPP 
E/4.3.7
Students are expected to maintain a satisfactory level of academic performance (Student Rule 38).
  Unsatisfactory academic performance is defined in E/6.7.4  and may also be defined in course or
  program requirements.
Unsatisfactory academic performance includes:
Exceeding the maximum time limit for completion of an award course (Student Rule 14 and 
E/4.4
Achieving a low grade point average (E/6.7.4 and E/6.7.5)
Failing a unit twice (E/6.7.4
Failing a designated unit (E/6.7.3
For international students, failing to comply with course progress requirements under the Education Services for Overseas Students Act 2000 (Student Rule 3(2))
For research higher degree students, failing to meet research degree milestones in a timely way or at the level of intellectual achievement relevant to the degree       type (eg masters or doctorate).
If a unit code and/or title has been changed on administrative grounds, without changing the content,
  the unit will be deemed to be the same for the purpose of assessing unsatisfactory academic performance.
Top 
6.7.2 Early intervention for students performing poorly 
Unsatisfactory academic performance management processes  are undertaken biannually, at the end of each of Semesters 1 and 2.
For research higher degree students, unsatisfactory  progress is normally identified in the context of annual and other reporting  milestones as described in the PhD Regulations and other course rules (eg for research masters, professional doctorates by  research).
Top 
6.7.3 Designated units in  award courses 
A designated unit has content that has been identified by  the faculty as critical to meeting a satisfactory level of competence. A  faculty academic board requires students to complete the unit with a passing  grade in order to continue in the award course. Such units  include professional experience units, units requiring the development of  particular skills, and units requiring the demonstration of certain personal  qualities.
A schedule of designated units can be found on the Student  Services website .
Top 
6.7.4 Probationary  enrolment 
Students are placed on probationary enrolment if they:
  achieve a semester grade point average of less than 3.0 during the  semester under consideration; and/or
  are awarded a failing grade in a unit which they have previously  failed; and/or
  are awarded a failing grade in a designated unit.
Probationary enrolment indicates that academic performance  has been unsatisfactory, but the student is provided the opportunity to  improve.
The conditions of probationary enrolment are stated in  Student Rule 40. 
Top6.7.5 Exclusion 
Exclusion means that the student is not permitted to  continue in a course or courses at QUT (Student Rule 42). An eligible  student may be excluded from a course for unsatisfactory academic performance.
Students are eligible for exclusion if they:
  achieve a semester grade point average of less than 3.0 in two consecutive semesters of  their study (other than the first 96 credit points of an undergraduate course)  and/or 
  fail the same unit three times and/or 
  fail the same designated unit twice. 
Research higher degree students are eligible for exclusion  if they fail to maintain the agreed progress of work and reporting in  accordance with PhD  Regulations and other course rules.
Students who are eligible for exclusion will receive a  notice of exclusion, together with advice that they have a right to appeal to  the University if they consider their circumstances to be extenuating.
Student appeals against exclusion will be considered at  faculty level in the first instance; appeals that are dismissed at faculty  level, together with a list of those appeals upheld and brief reasons for the  decisions, will be forwarded to Appeals Committee for consideration.
Students who exceed time limits for the completion of award  courses will be considered in the first instance at faculty level. Where no  extenuating circumstances exist to support a case for either probationary  enrolment or no change to enrolment status at all, it is expected that  faculties will exclude students. Students who receive a notice of exclusion  have a right of appeal.
The Registrar may exclude a student from all QUT courses  and programs if the student has been excluded previously from a course in  another faculty.
If a student who has been excluded does not appeal  against the decision, or if the student's appeal is not successful, the  exclusion remains in force for an indefinite period of time and may only be  revoked by a recommendation of the executive dean to the Registrar to approve an application for readmission (E/4.1.11).
A student in their first year of re-enrolment after a  period of exclusion is placed on probationary enrolment (Student Rule 43(2))  for a period of one semester. Units failed prior to the period of exclusion  will be taken into account when considering whether the student is subsequently  eligible for exclusion for failing a unit three times or failing the same designated  unit twice.
In accordance with the ESOS Act, all international student  visa holders who have been excluded will be reported to  the Department of Immigration and Citizenship (DIAC) for breach of the student  condition relating to satisfactory academic performance.
Top 
6.7.6 Right to appeal 
Any student who has been excluded from a program of study  has a right to appeal to Appeals  Committee (Student Rule 47(2)).
Top 
6.7.7 Lodging an appeal 
Appeals must be lodged by the date specified in the letter  which advised the student of the exclusion. The University is not obliged to  consider an appeal lodged after this date. Procedures for submitting an appeal  can be found on the Student  Services website.
Top 
6.7.8 Appeals against exclusion for unsatisfactory academic performance 
An appeal against exclusion for unsatisfactory academic performance is referred to the relevant faculty
  academic board. The faculty academic board recommends to Appeals Committee whether the appeal should
be upheld or dismissed.  Appeals Committee considers:
whether the exclusion decision imposed and procedures followed were correct according
      to relevant policies and rules
the severity or consistency of the exclusion decision
mitigating circumstances provided by or on behalf of the student in the appeal
actions taken by the  student or faculty to address performance issues.
When an appeal against exclusion is upheld, the student may immediately re-enrol in the program and
  will be placed on probationary enrolment for six months in accordance with
  Student Rule 43. There will be no adverse academic or financial consequences provided enrolment occurs
within five working days of the date of notification of the appeal outcome.
Where a faculty academic board recommends that an appeal against exclusion for failure to complete
  an award course within the required time limit should be upheld, the board must include in its report
  a specified period in which the student will complete the course requirements and any units or special
  examinations that the student will be required to undertake.
Where Appeals Committee decides that an appeal against exclusion for failure to complete an award
  course within the required time limit should be upheld, the faculty academic board will be required
  to determine conditions under which the student may complete the course.
In all cases, the decision of Appeals Committee is final.
Top 
6.7.9 Status of students awaiting the outcome of an appeal 
The University will make determinations on appeals against exclusion as soon as practicable, but will
  not necessarily resolve any particular case before the close of enrolments for the next teaching period.
  Students whose appeals will not be resolved before the commencement of the teaching period (where the
  delay is not the fault of the student) are issued with a letter of authorisation for attendance at
  classes only, pending the outcome of the appeal. Students must consult the course coordinator about
  the enrolment program they will undertake while awaiting the outcome of the appeal.
Students who have already commenced studies in a teaching period when issued with an exclusion notice
  will be permitted to continue studies in that teaching period only. Such students must comply with
  the appeals deadline stated in their exclusion notice. Following completion of the teaching period,
  students will be excluded subject to the outcome of an appeal.
Top 
Related Documents 
MOPP C/5.3 Procedures for academic dishonesty
MOPP E/1.2 Appeals Committee
MOPP E/4.1 Student admission
MOPP E/9.1 Review of grades and academic rulings
MOPP D/5.3 Postgraduate research  students
MOPP D/5.4 Code of Good Practice  for Postgraduate Research Studies and Supervision at QUT
MOPP Appendix 9 Doctor of  Philosophy Regulations 
Top 
Modification History 
Date
Sections
Source
Details
  13.11.09
  E/6.7.5
  University Academic Board
  Revised  policy to clarify exclusion conditions, effective from Semester 1, 2010
  18.09.09
  E/6.7.5, E/6.7.8
  University Academic Board
  Revised policy to clarify exclusion appeals  process
  18.12.08
  All
  Chair, University Academic Board
  Revised policy to reflect changes to Student  Rules approved by Council 10.12.08
  04.04.08
  All
   University Academic Board
  Revised policy &ndash;  effective from 01.01.09 (endorsed by Academic Policy and Procedures Committee  10.03.08 and 27.10.08)
  16.11.07
  E/6.7.8
   University Academic Board
  Revised  policy to include additional factor for consideration by Appeals Committee when  considering appeals against exclusion (endorsed by Appeals Committee  15.10.2007)
   12.10.07
  E/6.7.1, E/6.7.2
   University Academic Board
  Amendments in compliance  with Standards 9 and 10 of ESOS National Code of Practice (endorsed by Academic  Policy and Procedures Committee 17.09.2007)
07.10.05
All
University Academic Board
Amendments to reflect extension of process to non-award programs and other matters
        - effective 01.01.2006 (endorsed by Academic Policy and Procedures Committee 14.9.2005)
26.09.03
All
University Academic Board
New policy - effective 01.01.2004 (endorsed by Academic Policy and Procedures
        Committee 30.07.2003)
Top 
    Chapter A | Chapter B | Chapter C | Chapter D | Chapter E | Chapter F | Chapter G | Chapter H | Chapter I | Appendices | Protocol for MOPP Policy | Recent Updates
    QUT Home | MOPP Home
    CRICOS No. 00213J
    Privacy | Copyright | Accessibility
    Last modified 17-May-2010
    Contact us | Feedback | Disclaimer
