QUT | MOPP | E/6.2 Conduct during examinations
            QUT&nbsp;Home
          Contact&nbsp;us
          Search
      MOPP Home
      Protocol for MOPP Policy
      Recent Updates
      E/6.2 Conduct during examinations
Chapters
A - Governance/Organisation
B - Human Resources
C - Learning/Teaching
D - Research/Development
E - Student Administration
F - Information Management
G - Financial Management
H - Physical Facilities
I - International/Community
MOPP Appendices
MOPP Protocol
MOPP Updates
[Print-friendly version]
Contact OfficerDirector, Student Business Services 
Approval Date13/11/2009 
Approval AuthorityUniversity Academic Board 
Date of Next Review01/12/2012 
6.2.1 Responsibilities of examination invigilator 
6.2.2 Conduct and responsibilities of examiner during examinations 
6.2.3 Conduct of students during examinations 
Modification History 
This policy should be read in conjunction with the 
QUT 
  Student Rules
and the procedural information provided on the 
Student 
  Services website.
Top 
6.2.1 Responsibilities of examination invigilator 
The examination invigilator administers the examination in the room. In particular, 
  invigilators must immediately halt any perceived instances of academic dishonesty 
  (C/5.3). The 
  Student Business Services Department maintains a procedures manual for use by 
  invigilators.
Top 
6.2.2 Conduct and responsibilities of examiner during examinations 
In this policy, the academic staff member responsible for conducting the examination 
  is 
the examiner
. The examiner may be the unit coordinator, but unit 
  coordinators may delegate the responsibilities for examinations to other teaching 
  staff in the unit.
Entry to examination rooms
When entering an examination room, an examiner must show the invigilator either 
  his/her QUT Staff Identity Card or another suitable form of identification.
Addressing examinees
An examiner must either address announcements concerning clarification of or 
  amendment to an examination paper to the entire group of students or write them 
  on a board.
Use of calculators or other devices in examinations
An examiner should specify on the examination paper whether students may use 
  any type of portable calculator or non-programmable calculators only. An examiner 
  who does not wish students to use programmable calculators must attend the examination 
  during perusal time to check each calculator. All other devices, such as mobile 
  telephones, electronic dictionaries or handheld computers, are prohibited.
Availability of examiners
Examiners should ensure that staff of the Student Business Services Department 
  can contact them during the full working time of their examination papers. Examiners 
  who will be absent from their normal telephone number on the dates of their 
  examinations should provide the Examinations Officer with an alternative contact 
  number in advance.
Checking text books and other materials permitted for use by examinees
Where restrictions apply to the documents and materials which students are 
  permitted to use in an examination, it is essential that an examiner experienced 
  in the unit under examination be present at the examination room/s. The examiner 
  will assist the invigilator to check students' documents and make determinations 
  on the legitimacy or otherwise of notes they contain. The Examinations Officer 
  must be informed if unauthorised notes are found. 
Collecting students' central examination scripts
In order to avoid marking delays, examiners should make prior arrangements 
  with the Student Business Services Department to facilitate their collection 
  of students' scripts as soon as possible after the examination. If uncollected 
  by examiners, scripts will be dispatched to the relevant School office.
Top 
6.2.3 Conduct of students during examinations 
A student found guilty of breaching any of the following standards of conduct 
  during examinations in a way that may compromise or defeat the purposes of the 
  assessment may be found guilty of academic misconduct (E/2.1
Student identification
Students must bring into the examination room and keep displayed their current 
  student identification card.
Students to comply with directions
A student will comply with all directions given by the invigilator and all 
  instructions to candidates set out on the examination materials or displayed 
  in the examination room.
A student's behaviour must not disturb, distract or adversely affect any other 
  student.
Entering and leaving an examination room
Students who are given permission to enter or leave an examination room will 
  comply with any conditions relating to the grant of the permission. However, 
  students are not permitted to leave the examination room
    until half the prescribed working time has elapsed
    during the last 15 minutes of working time
unless there are exceptional circumstances.
Students who arrive late, but before half the working time for the examination 
  has elapsed, will normally be permitted to take the examination. However, no 
  additional working time will be allowed unless exceptional circumstances warrant.
In the case of central examinations, the decision to grant extra time is made 
  by the Examinations Officer, in consultation where necessary with the unit coordinator.
Unauthorised material and devices not to be brought into the examination 
  room
Students may bring into an examination room only those materials approved for 
  the unit under examination and indicated as such on the examination paper. All 
  other materials are expressly prohibited unless
    brought into the room with the permission of the invigilator; and
    deposited by the student directly upon entering the examination room at 
    a place stipulated by the invigilator.
  It is inconsequential that the unauthorised material is not related to the 
  unit under examination.
Students are prohibited from having any device capable of communicating verbal 
  or written information, such as mobile telephones, electronic dictionaries or 
  handheld computers, in their possession during an examination. Such devices 
  must be turned off and left at a designated location within the room as stipulated 
  by the invigilator.
Students not to remove papers
A student will not remove from the examination room any worked scripts or other 
  paper provided for use during the course of the examination (other than the 
  question papers supplied where this is authorised by the invigilator) or other 
  material which is the property of the University. 
Students not to communicate with others
During an examination a student will not communicate by word or otherwise with 
  any other person except the invigilator or examiner.
Top 
Modification History 
Date
Sections
Source
Details
   13.11.09
   All
  University Academic Board
   Periodic review - no change required
14.09.05
All
Academic Policy and Procedures Committee
Policy reviewed - no change required
19.03.04
E/6.2.2, E/6.2.3
University Academic Board
Revised policy to prohibit mobile telephones or other devices to be in 
      student possession during examinations (endorsed by Academic Policy and 
      Procedures Committee 12.03.2004)
26.09.03
All
University Academic Board
New policy (effective 01.01.2004) (endorsed by Academic Policy and Procedure 
      Committee 17.09.2003)
Top 
    Chapter A | Chapter B | Chapter C | Chapter D | Chapter E | Chapter F | Chapter G | Chapter H | Chapter I | Appendices | Protocol for MOPP Policy | Recent Updates
    QUT Home | MOPP Home
    CRICOS No. 00213J
    Privacy | Copyright | Accessibility
    Last modified 31-Aug-2010
    Contact us | Feedback | Disclaimer
