QUT | MOPP | E/6.8 Late assessment and extensions
            QUT&nbsp;Home
          Contact&nbsp;us
          Search
      MOPP Home
      Protocol for MOPP Policy
      Recent Updates
      E/6.8 Late assessment and extensions
Chapters
A - Governance/Organisation
B - Human Resources
C - Learning/Teaching
D - Research/Development
E - Student Administration
F - Information Management
G - Financial Management
H - Physical Facilities
I - International/Community
MOPP Appendices
MOPP Protocol
MOPP Updates
[Print-friendly version]
Contact OfficerDean of Studies, Office of Teaching Quality 
Approval Date08/07/2010 
Approval AuthorityUniversity Academic Board 
Date of Next Review01/06/2012 
6.8.1 Policy principles 
6.8.2 Responsibility of faculty academic board 
6.8.3 Responsibility of unit coordinator 
6.8.4 Extensions 
Related Documents 
Modification History 
6.8.1 Policy principles 
The University's assessment policies derive from  teaching and learning objectives and are based on principles of fairness to  students.  Due to the differing nature of  courses and course requirements, assessment tasks and requirements vary widely  within and between units and faculties. Because no single approach to assessment tasks and requirements is  possible, processes for late assessment and extensions are the responsibility  of the faculty within which the unit is offered.  Management of late assessment and extensions  must adhere to principles of transparency and fairness to all students in a  cohort.
Top 
6.8.2 Responsibility of faculty academic board 
The faculty academic board must  publish a clear faculty policy on late assessment which specifies the  consequences of late assessment.  Faculty  policy must also specify if and when late assessment will not be marked due to lateness.  Where a faculty has specific practices for requesting extensions (eg a form, a requirement for documentation  or a standard extension period routinely granted), these should also be outlined.  The faculty's policy may allow  for variations between disciplines or schools within a faculty.
The faculty has responsibility for ensuring that this policy is published in resources accessible to students such as faculty websites.
Top 
6.8.3 Responsibility of unit coordinator 
The unit coordinator has responsibility for development of Additional unit information (which includes assessment information, and assessment deadlines).  Except in exceptional circumstances, the Additional unit information must include information concerning the faculty's policy on late assessment or provide a link to other published resources outlining the faculty's policy.
The unit coordinator also has responsibility for considering applications by individual students for an extension to the due date for assessment, in accordance with faculty policy.  However, this responsibility may  be expressly delegated to other staff such as tutors in large units or a designated member of the professional staff of the school or faculty.
Top 
6.8.4 Extensions 
In general, extensions should only  be granted where the following criteria apply:
the student has made a written request for an extension prior to or within three working days of the due date for the       assessment item; and
the student has justified their request on the basis of individual circumstances that are reasonably likely to have       prevented them from completing the assessment by the specified deadline.
Any extension granted by a unit  coordinator must specify in writing a new due date for submission of the  assessment item, during which the student can submit the work without a penalty  being applied. Except where exceptional  circumstances exist, the duration of any extension granted should take  reasonable account of the delay experienced by the student, and permission to  submit after the normal due date for the assessment without penalty should not  be open-ended.
Top 
Related Documents 
MOPP  C/4.5 Unit outlines
MOPP C/5.1  Assessment
MOPP E/6.3  Alternative arrangements for assessment
Top 
Modification History 
Date
Sections
Source
Details
   08.07.10
   All
   Dean of Studies, Office of Teaching Quality
   Periodic review - no change required
17.11.06
All
University Academic Board
New policy (endorsed by Academic Policy and  Procedures Committee 06.11.06)
Top 
    Chapter A | Chapter B | Chapter C | Chapter D | Chapter E | Chapter F | Chapter G | Chapter H | Chapter I | Appendices | Protocol for MOPP Policy | Recent Updates
    QUT Home | MOPP Home
    CRICOS No. 00213J
    Privacy | Copyright | Accessibility
    Last modified 14-Jul-2010
    Contact us | Feedback | Disclaimer
