QUT | MOPP | E/6.5 Allocation and release of results
            QUT&nbsp;Home
          Contact&nbsp;us
          Search
      MOPP Home
      Protocol for MOPP Policy
      Recent Updates
      E/6.5 Allocation and release of results
Chapters
A - Governance/Organisation
B - Human Resources
C - Learning/Teaching
D - Research/Development
E - Student Administration
F - Information Management
G - Financial Management
H - Physical Facilities
I - International/Community
MOPP Appendices
MOPP Protocol
MOPP Updates
[Print-friendly version]
Contact OfficerDirector, Student Business Services 
Approval Date04/04/2008 
Approval AuthorityUniversity Academic Board 
Date of Next Review01/01/2012 
6.5.1 Authority of the executive dean to submit and approve results 
6.5.2 Submission of results 
6.5.3 Approval of results 
6.5.4 Special consideration 
6.5.5 Alteration of results after release 
6.5.6 Finalisation of results 
6.5.7 Release of final grades
Modification History
This policy should be read in conjunction with the 
QUT 
  Student Rules  
and the procedural information provided on the 
Student 
  Services website.
6.5.1 Authority of the executive dean to submit and approve results 
For the purposes of this policy (E/6.5), the executive dean of faculty is acting as the 
  chair of faculty academic board.
In accordance with Student rule 50(1), the executive dean may delegate to another person 
  or body the authority to approve results, provided that the executive dean has determined 
  policy on assessment of results and the decisions of the person or body are 
  consistent with this policy and reported to the executive dean.
Top 
6.5.2 Submission of results 
The Student Business Services Department processes results  in cooperation with heads of school and unit coordinators.
Recommended grades and/or marks (%) must be submitted to  the assessment management system. Following endorsement by faculty academic boards,  finalised results are loaded into the student management system from the  assessment management system. 
In submitting results to the assessment  management system, examiners (see
  E/6.2.2 ) 
should include the names of any students who undertook  assessment but who do not appear to be correctly enrolled in the unit. Such  students may not have a result released until the problem with their enrolment  is resolved.
Results submitted to the assessment management system must  be authorised by the head of school. Results must be received no later than the  published date for incorporation in reports for faculty academic boards.
Where students are enrolled in teaching periods that do not  have a central examination period, executive deans of faculty approve final  results and submit them to the assessment management system for loading into  the student management system and release to the student. 
Top 
6.5.3 Approval of results 
Each executive dean is provided with a list of students in the faculty's courses with 
  recommended results for all units. In accordance with Student Rule 35, executive deans 
  review and approve results recommended for each student of each course in accordance 
  with course rules and faculty policy.
The executive dean may determine a unit result of a student enrolled in one of the faculty's 
  courses which is different from the result recommended by the examiner and/or 
  the head of the school offering the unit.
The determination should occur after consultation with either the examiner 
  of the unit or the head of the school offering the unit regarding the intended 
  variation and considering any matters which either of them wish to place before 
  the faculty academic board. Examiners and heads of schools must make every effort 
  to make themselves available for such consultation, which may take place in 
  person, electronically, or by any other means that will facilitate the process. 
  If consultation is unable to occur due to the unavailability of both the examiner 
  and the head of school, the faculty academic board may make the decision to 
  alter the grade.
Following approval by the executive dean, the Student Business Services Department formally 
  notifies results to the student on behalf of the Registrar (see Student Rule 
  35).
Top 
6.5.4 Special consideration 
Students who  consider that their ability to make satisfactory academic progress during a  teaching period, or their performance in an assessment item has been adversely  affected by medical, compassionate or other exceptional circumstances, may  apply for special consideration. Special consideration is regarded as a  significant concession to a student and, as such, will only be granted when a  properly documented and timely case is made by the applicant. 
Applications for  special consideration should be submitted prior to or normally no more than  three working days after the date of the examination or the submission date of  the assessment item. Applications must be supported by documentary evidence  that demonstrates extenuating circumstances and indicates the temporal extent  and severity of the circumstances, and the effect on the student&rsquo;s performance.  Guidelines relating to  special consideration are available on the Student Services website. 
The granting or  rejection of the application will be determined by the executive dean of the  relevant faculty and advised to the applicant within 10 working  days of receipt of the application in the faculty.
In cases where  special consideration is granted, the faculty may resolve to determine the  outcome at the time of finalisation of grades, unless it would be more  appropriate to determine the outcome at the time of application. The executive  dean, in consultation with the course and / or unit coordinator if appropriate,  will determine the outcome, which could include
  no  change to result
  completion  of alternative or additional assessment &nbsp;of a similar type and academic level 
  late  acceptance of an assessment item where application for late submission has not  been made (the application must address the reasons for failing to comply with  relevant policy on the granting of extensions, see E/6.8 )
  reconsideration  of the composite result for a unit/s. 
Special  consideration applies to the full grading scale, not just the pass / fail  boundary. Granting of special consideration will not necessarily result in a  change of grade. 
Personal  information contained in the application will be managed in accordance with the  University&rsquo;s information privacy policy (see F/6.2 ). Records of  applications for special consideration and their outcomes should be retained in  accordance with the University&rsquo;s records management policy (see F/6.1 ).
Students  dissatisfied with a decision to reject an application can appeal via the  procedure for review of academic ruling (see E/9.1 ). 
Top 
6.5.5 Alteration of results after release 
An executive dean of faculty administering a course may, with the concurrence of the relevant 
  unit coordinator or the head of the school offering the unit, alter his or her 
  decisions on results in order to
correct a patent error
make a decision accord with a decision that the executive dean, head of school and/or 
    unit coordinator are satisfied would have been made if relevant circumstances 
    which were not considered by the executive dean had been taken into account.
Top 
6.5.6 Finalisation of results 
Where a result is unfinalised at the time of release,  including units where supplementary assessment has been approved, the faculty  academic board must advise Student Business Services Department of the final  result no later than six weeks after the release of results.
If, because of exceptional circumstances, a result can not  be finalised within the time specified above, the executive dean must advise  the Registrar of the circumstances and request an extension of time. All  unfinalised results are converted to 'K' grades (Withdrawn - Failure) six weeks  after release of results, unless an extension of time has been granted.
Where a student fails to meet a debt or obligation to the  University, the Registrar may approve the withholding of the student's  examination results. 
Top 
6.5.7 Release of final grades 
A final grade is awarded for each unit attempted. The  grading scale is at C/5.2.1 .
Students are advised of final grades at the end of each  teaching period.
A student may have the grade obtained in any unit reviewed  on request (refer MOPP E/9.1 for policy on review of grades and academic rulings). Top 
Related Documents
MOPP C/5.2 QUT Grading system
MOPP E/9.1 Review of grades and academic rulings
MOPP E/10.1 Graduation requirements
Top 
Modification History 
Date
Sections
Source
Details
  07.10.10
  E/6.5.4
  Governance Services
  Policy revised to reflect change from privacy policy to information privacy 
  12.09.08
  E/6.5.4
  University  Academic Board
  Revised  policy relating to special consideration (effective from beginning of Summer  Semester 2008) (endorsed by Academic Policy and Procedures Committee 25.08.08)
  04.04.08
  All
  University  Academic Board
  Revised policy -  effective from 01.01.09 (endorsed by Academic Policy and Procedures Committee  10.03.08)
13.06.06
E/6.5.9
Student Business Services Department
Updated procedure consistent with delegation of authority from University Academic
        Board to the Registrar to confer awards
07.10.05
E/6.5.4, E/6.5.7
University Academic Board
Revised policy relating to special consideration and release of final grades (endorsed
        by Academic Policy and Procedures Committee 14.09.05)
26.09.03
All
University Academic Board
New policy (effective 01.01.2004) (endorsed by Academic Policy and Procedures
        Committee 17.09.2003)
Top 
    Chapter A | Chapter B | Chapter C | Chapter D | Chapter E | Chapter F | Chapter G | Chapter H | Chapter I | Appendices | Protocol for MOPP Policy | Recent Updates
    QUT Home | MOPP Home
    CRICOS No. 00213J
    Privacy | Copyright | Accessibility
    Last modified 28-Oct-2010
    Contact us | Feedback | Disclaimer
