QUT | MOPP | E/8.1 Management of student discipline
            QUT&nbsp;Home
          Contact&nbsp;us
          Search
      MOPP Home
      Protocol for MOPP Policy
      Recent Updates
      E/8.1 Management of student discipline
Chapters
A - Governance/Organisation
B - Human Resources
C - Learning/Teaching
D - Research/Development
E - Student Administration
F - Information Management
G - Financial Management
H - Physical Facilities
I - International/Community
MOPP Appendices
MOPP Protocol
MOPP Updates
[Print-friendly version]
Contact OfficerRegistrar 
Approval Date25/08/2010 
Approval AuthorityCouncil 
Date of Next Review01/09/2013 
8.1.1 Principles 
8.1.2 Categories of student misconduct 
8.1.3 Definitions 
8.1.4 Responsibilities for student misconduct 
8.1.5 Detection and reporting
8.1.6 Management of minor misconduct
8.1.7 Dealing with allegations of major misconduct
8.1.8 Penalties
8.1.9 Interim suspension
8.1.10 Appeals
8.1.11 Recordkeeping and reporting
Related Documents 
Modification History 
8.1.1 Principles 
As members of the University community, students must conduct themselves  in a manner consistent with the standards of behaviour set out in the QUT  Student Code of Conduct (E/2.1) and other related policies.  These standards of behaviour promote the good  order and management of the University, and academic integrity. 
  Failure by a student to meet these standards of behaviour is dealt with as  misconduct and the student may be subject to disciplinary action.  Disciplinary action for misconduct will be  taken by QUT under this policy in accordance with the following principles
  disciplinary procedures should be fair and just, and consistent with the  requirements of natural justice
  penalties imposed for proven misconduct should be appropriate, proportionate  and consistent
  decision-making on misconduct should be delegated to appropriate levels  of responsibility within the University, and committees formed to consider  student misconduct should include student representation.
The procedures for the management of student  discipline set out in this policy will apply to any student of QUT.  
Top 
8.1.2 Categories of student misconduct 
QUT defines student misconduct as coming within one of the following  categories
  academic misconduct (C/5.3)
  breaches of policy on acceptable use of information technology resources (referred  to in this policy as "acceptable use breach") (F/1.11)
  research misconduct (D/2.6)
  non-academic misconduct (E/2.1).  
Breaches of library borrowing conditions are generally managed in  accordance with procedures set out in borrowing of library resources (F/1.12). 
Top 
8.1.3 Definitions 
'Discipline  committee' means a committee having responsibility for considering major  cases of student misconduct, as set out in 8.1.4.  
'Minor misconduct' refers to behaviour which breaches the standards  of conduct set out in the Student Code of Conduct (E/2.1), but where the  extent, seriousness or impact of the breach is not substantial. Recidivist behaviour (in the same category of  misconduct) will not be regarded as minor misconduct if the student has previously  been counselled about the standards of conduct required by the University.
'Executive dean of faculty' includes the Director, QUT International College.
Top 
8.1.4 Responsibilities for student misconduct 
Responsibility for considering cases of alleged student misconduct and  for determining whether misconduct is proven is delegated as follows.  
    Minor misconduct /    Receipt of reports
    Major cases
    Academic misconduct 
    Unit coordinator / Examinations Manager (for cheating in central    examinations)
     Faculty academic misconduct committees
    Acceptable use breach 
    Deputy Vice-Chancellor (Technology, Information and Learning Support)
    Student Misconduct Committee
    Research misconduct 
    Deputy Vice-Chancellor (Research and Commercialisation)
     Student Research Misconduct Committee
    Non-academic (general) misconduct
    Executive Dean / Director Library Services or delegate (for cases    involving library facilities) / Security Manager (in other cases) 
    Student Misconduct Committee
The officer responsible for dealing with minor cases in each category  also has a general responsibility for promoting compliance with relevant  behavioural standards and for initiating processes for detection of breaches  relevant to their area of responsibility, and will be the primary contact to  receive information or a report on alleged misconduct in that category.  
Major allegations of  misconduct are dealt with by the relevant discipline committee constituted in  accordance with terms of reference approved by the University.  Discipline committee membership takes account  of relevant expertise and includes student representation.
Top
8.1.5 Detection and reporting
Reports of alleged misconduct may come from a number of sources.  Any person having relevant information about  suspected misconduct may report it to the officer designated in 8.1.4.  Additionally, the University undertakes  routine checks on compliance in some areas, for instance, by review of logs of  IT activity or by utilising plagiarism detection tools.   
  If a person is uncertain as to the appropriate officer to whom suspected  misconduct should be reported, then the report may be provided to the  Registrar, who will ensure that the report is referred to the appropriate  officer.  
Upon receipt of a report, the responsible officer should consider the  following matters (in consultation with other senior officers as appropriate)
  whether the allegations should be dealt with as  minor misconduct or not
  whether the circumstances warrant the imposition  of an interim suspension by the Registrar under 8.1.9
  whether the student may have breached criminal  laws and whether the conduct should be reported to the police or other law  enforcement agencies by the Registrar in accordance with established protocols.  
If it is determined that the matter should be  dealt with under procedures for major misconduct, then a report of alleged  misconduct, including all relevant documents and evidence, should be made by  the responsible officer to the secretary of the appropriate discipline  committee.
Top
8.1.6 Management of minor misconduct
Regardless of the category of misconduct, minor instances of misconduct by a  student should be dealt with promptly and informally. The approach to managing misconduct at this  level should be educative, raising a student's awareness of relevant  behavioural standards or expectations, and without the imposition of any  penalty specified in this policy. 
Management of minor misconduct involves the following steps
  examination of documentation or evidence relevant  to an allegation of minor misconduct
  interviewing the student concerned or otherwise  informing the student of the manner in which their behaviour appears to have  fallen below the required standards
  counselling the student about the standards to  be met and, if applicable, outlining any available support mechanisms which may  assist the student to meet those standards in the future. 
In appropriate cases (particularly cases of  non-academic misconduct), minor instances of misconduct may result in the  responsible officer issuing a warning or, in appropriate cases, issuing directions  to the student, in order to prevent occurrences of misconduct in the future or  to remedy the minor breach.  Records must  be kept in accordance with 8.1.11 of how minor misconduct has been managed,  in particular, any written warning or instructions given to the student to  guide future behaviour.
Top
8.1.7 Dealing with allegations of major misconduct
Because significant cases of misconduct may, if proven, result in the  imposition of a penalty upon the student, the procedures to be followed must be  consistent with requirements of natural justice.  All of the following steps must be undertaken  in relation to misconduct which is alleged to have occurred whilst a person is  a student at QUT.  
(a)  Allegation notice 
  Allegations of misconduct must be put to the student in writing.  To ensure receipt by the student, the  allegation notice must be posted to the student's current postal address in the  student management system, and a copy forwarded to the student email address  employed by the University for student communications.  A notice must contain the following  information to assist the student to understand the nature of the allegation,  the process for dealing with the allegation, and the student's rights
  (i) the relevant section of the QUT Student Code of  Conduct (E/2.1.4) alleged to have been breached
  (ii) the particulars or evidence of the incident or  conduct giving rise to the allegation
  (iii) the  date, time and place set for a meeting at which the allegation of misconduct  will be considered by the discipline committee responsible for dealing with  misconduct in that category
  (iv) any  person proposed to be interviewed by the discipline committee at the meeting
  (v) the  student's right to respond to the allegation by, if the student elects,  attending the meeting, and in any case, by providing written submissions on the  allegations or the type of penalty which could be imposed if the allegation is  proven
  (vi) the  student's right to arrange for the attendance of a person with relevant  information to be interviewed by the discipline committee at the meeting
  (vii) the  student's right to be accompanied or represented by a support person at the  meeting (for further, see 8.1.7(c))
  (viii) the  consequences of non-attendance or of failing to provide written submissions,  including the powers of the discipline committee to determine the allegation  and impose a penalty on the student
  (ix) the  support services provided by the QUT Student Guild to assist a student in  responding to allegations. 
The chair of the discipline committee which deals with significant cases of  misconduct in the relevant category is responsible for ensuring that an  allegation notice in this form is sent to the student. Copies of all documents or written evidence to  be taken into consideration by the discipline committee should be provided to  the student at the same time as the allegation notice is sent.
(b) Time  for meeting  
 The discipline committee meeting at which the allegations will be considered  must be held no less than 10 working days and not more than 20 working days  after the date upon which the allegation notice was sent to the student. 
(c) Meeting procedures
  Meetings of the relevant discipline committee will be conducted in  accordance with Council  Procedure 1 - Committees. If a  student is not present at the meeting within 10 minutes of the starting time  for the meeting, the discipline committee may proceed to determine the matter  without further recourse to the student, though the discipline committee must  take into account any written submissions provided by the student prior to the  meeting date and time. 
  If the student is present, the student must be given the opportunity to ask  questions of any person interviewed by the committee and may present any facts,  evidence, documents or oral submissions relevant to the allegations. The student may be accompanied to the meeting  by a support person. 
  A representative may attend the meeting in the student's place, and has the  same rights of audience and debate as the student. However, neither the student nor the  University is entitled to have a legal representative (being a person who has  been admitted as a legal practitioner in any Australian jurisdiction) present  during the meeting.  
  A report of discussion and the findings of the discipline committee on the  student's case must be prepared. 
(d) Findings of misconduct
  The discipline committee must determine whether misconduct is proven to the  committee's reasonable satisfaction. The  discipline committee is not bound by the formal rules of evidence or other  legal technicalities, but must make a finding based on logical, credible and relevant evidence.  The discipline committee must produce a  report of its findings which is made routinely available to the student at the  time that the student is informed of the outcome of the meeting by the  discipline committee chair in writing. 
(e) Recommendation on penalty
  It is the role of the discipline committee to make a recommendation on  penalty. Once a finding of misconduct is  made, the committee should invite submissions from the student (if present at  the meeting) regarding the appropriate penalty to be applied. 
  The recommendation regarding penalty should take account of
  the seriousness and impact of the misconduct
  any mitigating circumstances
  the relevance of any proposed penalty to the  nature of the misconduct
  penalties applied by the Registrar in similar  proven cases
  whether the student has a history of prior  proven cases of misconduct
  the imposition and duration of any interim  suspension.  
Penalties for significant misconduct (in all categories) are imposed upon  students by the Registrar as chief administrative officer of the University,  though the Registrar may delegate imposition of certain penalties to other  officers of the University in the limited circumstances set out in 8.1.8.
(f) Dealing with allegations where the  student ceases to be enrolled
In the event that a student against whom  misconduct is alleged discontinues, withdraws their enrolment or takes an approved  leave of absence, the discipline committee may at its discretion proceed to  determine the matter, provided that the procedures in this policy are  followed.  Alternatively, the chair of  the discipline committee may elect to defer consideration of the case until  such time as the person resumes studies at QUT.   In the latter case, the chair will notify the person of this decision.
Top
8.1.8 Penalties
The  following penalties may be imposed for proven student misconduct
      (a)suspension  of the student for a specified period and/or subject to specified conditions, from  any or all of the following
      (i)entering  on university land
      (ii)using  the university's information technology resources
      (iii)attendance  at classes  
    (b) allocation  of a failing grade of 1 in a unit or units
    (c) reduction  of the student's mark in an assessment item, including reduction of the mark to zero
    (d) cancellation  of credit gained towards an award course
    (e) withholding  of examination results for a specified period and/or subject to specified  conditions
    (f) imposition  of a period of provisional enrolment (a period of enrolment subject to  specified conditions)
    (g) exclusion  from enrolment at the university for a specified period and/or subject to  specified conditions
    (h) an order  to pay restitution of an amount not exceeding $1000 
    (i) permanent  expulsion from the university. 
    Any  suspension under paragraph (a) will have the effect of prohibiting the student  from exercising the privileges or using the services specified in that paragraph.  
    The  Registrar may impose all penalties specified above, upon recommendation from  the relevant discipline committee, though the Registrar has discretion to  impose a penalty different from the penalty recommended by the discipline  committee.  The Registrar will notify the  student in writing of the penalty. However, if the student did not attend the  meeting of the discipline committee, the Registrar must not implement the  penalty until the student has been given the opportunity to make a submission  on penalty. 
    For  proven cases of academic misconduct occurring wholly within one faculty, the  Registrar may delegate at their discretion the imposition of the following  penalties only
reduction of the student's mark in an assessment item,  including a reduction of the mark to zero
      allocation of a failing grade in the unit in  which the academic misconduct occurred.  
Any penalty imposed becomes operative immediately.
Top
8.1.9  Interim suspension
An interim suspension may be imposed upon a student in circumstances where  the alleged misconduct raises a concern that there are serious risks associated  with the student's continuing presence at a University site or the student's  continuing use of the University's information technology resources. 
The Registrar may impose an interim suspension on a student, but only if the  Registrar believes that this is reasonably necessary to avert a serious and  urgent risk of any of the following
  (a) physical  or psychological harm to a person
    (b) damage  to University land, building or facility or to the University's information technology  resources
    (c) disruption  of a legitimate University activity
    (d) the  student continuing to act in a manner which may amount to misconduct. 
The interim suspension will continue until a decision is made on the alleged  misconduct, or until the risk has passed. 
The Registrar will notify the student  and the discipline committee of the interim suspension imposed. The Registrar must consider whether the  interim suspension should remain in force if submissions are received from the  student about the imposition or duration of the interim suspension. 
Top
8.1.10 Appeals
University Appeals Committee considers appeals on disciplinary matters. A student upon whom a penalty  has been imposed under 8.1.8 is entitled to appeal to the Appeals Committee on  one or more of the following grounds
  that the  decision is manifestly unreasonable taking into account all the circumstances of  the case or cannot be supported by the evidence that was available at the time  the decision was made
  that  procedural requirements specified in this policy were not followed and resulted  in a decision which was manifestly unfair
  that  relevant evidence was not considered in reaching the decision or that  irrelevant evidence was relied upon in reaching the decision
  that  fresh evidence has become available to the student which was not available or  not known to the student at the time that the allegation was heard or decided
  that a  penalty imposed under 8.1.8 was manifestly excessive or inappropriate, taking  into account all the circumstances of the case.  
An appeal must be in writing and must be submitted to the secretary of the  Appeals Committee within 10 working days of receiving final written notice of  the decision of the Registrar. A student  may provide any written evidence, information or submissions relevant to the  grounds of appeal relied upon.  An appeal  does not affect the implementation or imposition of any penalty imposed, unless  the penalty is varied or revoked by a decision of the Appeals Committee after  consideration of the student's appeal.  
  The Appeals Committee may
  dismiss  the appeal by confirming the decision initially made
  uphold  the appeal by revoking the finding of misconduct
  confirm,  vary or revoke any penalty imposed.  
Where the Appeals Committee  concludes that the required procedures for considering allegations of  misconduct have not been followed, it may refer the matter back to the relevant  discipline committee or officer to be dealt with in accordance with the  procedures set out in this policy. The  student must be advised of the outcome of the appeal within 5 working days of  the meeting of the Appeals Committee.
Top
8.1.11 Recordkeeping and reporting
Records must be maintained for minor and major cases of misconduct. 
Records of minor breaches must be maintained in the corporate records system. For major cases of misconduct and appeals,  records must be maintained in the corporate records system of all stages of the  disciplinary process and of any evidence, supporting documentation and  correspondence. Records must be kept  even where allegations are not proven. The  relevant discipline committee chair is responsible for providing records to  Appeals Committee upon request. The  Registrar is responsible for maintaining a register of penalties for the  purposes of ensuring penalties are applied consistently and to identify repeat  misconduct. 
A report on student misconduct management, at a  summary level, is prepared and presented to Vice-Chancellor's Advisory  Committee annually and, for academic and research misconduct, to University  Academic Board.
Top
Related Documents 
MOPP E/2.1 QUT Student Code of Conduct
  MOPP C/5.3 Procedures for academic dishonesty
  MOPP D/2.6 QUT Code of Conduct for Research
MOPP F/1.11 Acceptable use of information technology resources 
Top 
Modification History 
Date
Sections
Source
Details
   29.11.10 
   All
  Governance Services
  Revised policy - minor editorial changes only
 25.08.10
All
 Council
New policy (replaces lapsed Statute No 2 (Student Discipline) 1999 and  former E/8.1 Student Discipline) 
Top 
    Chapter A | Chapter B | Chapter C | Chapter D | Chapter E | Chapter F | Chapter G | Chapter H | Chapter I | Appendices | Protocol for MOPP Policy | Recent Updates
    QUT Home | MOPP Home
    CRICOS No. 00213J
    Privacy | Copyright | Accessibility
    Last modified 30-Nov-2010
    Contact us | Feedback | Disclaimer
