QUT | MOPP | E/9.1 Review of grades and academic rulings
            QUT&nbsp;Home
          Contact&nbsp;us
          Search
      MOPP Home
      Protocol for MOPP Policy
      Recent Updates
      E/9.1 Review of grades and academic rulings
Chapters
A - Governance/Organisation
B - Human Resources
C - Learning/Teaching
D - Research/Development
E - Student Administration
F - Information Management
G - Financial Management
H - Physical Facilities
I - International/Community
MOPP Appendices
MOPP Protocol
MOPP Updates
[Print-friendly version]
Contact OfficerDirector, Student Business Services 
Approval Date13/11/2009
Approval AuthorityUniversity Academic Board 
Date of Next Review01/12/2012 
9.1.1 Review of grades 
9.1.2 Review of academic rulings 
9.1.3 Status of students awaiting the outcome of a review 
Related Documents 
Modification History 
This policy should be read in conjunction with the 
QUT 
  Student Rules
and the procedural information provided on the 
Student 
  Services website.
Top 
9.1.1 Review of grades 
During the course of a teaching period students should discuss their progress in all coursework exercises
  (including examinations which form part of progressive assessment) with relevant teaching staff, and
  can expect to be provided with a clear indication of the extent to which they have or have not achieved
  the objectives set for each assessment item, as provided in the Assessment policy (C/5.1). Since this
  step may constitute a significant component of the learning outcomes for the unit, this should be undertaken
  as soon as possible (normally within five working days) after the release of the marks and/or return of
the assessment item.
Students who are dissatisfied with the final grade received for the unit should initiate the Review
  of Grade process. 
Review of grades may lead to no change or to a less favourable or a more
  favourable outcome for the student.
Reviews of passing grades under steps 2 and 3 attract a charge (see 
schedule
    of administrative charges
) which is reimbursed if a higher grade is awarded following the review.
    There is no charge for review of fail grades.
Preliminary Step &ndash; Clarification
Prior to proceeding with the informal and formal  processes of the review of grade, the student should have accessed
  feedback in relation to achieving the objectives of the  assessment items and
  the component marks for individual assessment items and their  relative weightings making up the overall grade.
Step 1 &ndash; Informal review at unit coordinator level
Following the release of grade for the unit, a student  who is dissatisfied with the assessment of an individual item or believes that  an error has occurred in the compilation of the overall grade from component  assessment items should consult the unit coordinator. If the unit coordinator  accepts the student's case, the unit coordinator may recommend to the executive  dean, in accordance with E/6.5.5 and relevant faculty policy, that the grade be altered.
Step 2 &ndash; Formal review at school level
If the student remains dissatisfied after completing  Step 1 of these procedures, or if the student is unable to obtain clarification  of the reason for the grade for a unit, then the student may apply to the  Registrar for a school level review of the grade normally within 10 working  days of the release of the grade for the unit. The application must be  supported by a written case. Procedures for making the application are outlined  on the Student Services web site (Review of Grade).
The head of school responsible for the unit in dispute  determines the form of the review, which may include an independent  re-assessment of the item(s) in dispute. The review must assess whether  procedures have been correctly followed, whether the assessment is in  accordance with the Unit Outline and whether the assessment is consistent with  the assessment criteria, and must address the issues raised in the student's  written case. The head of school advises the Registrar, normally within 10  working days, of the outcome of the review with reference to the student's  written case. The Registrar normally advises the student of the outcome within  15 working days of receipt of the application.
Step 3 &ndash; Formal review at faculty level
A student who is dissatisfied with the outcome of the  school level review of grade (Step 2) for a unit may apply to the Registrar for  a faculty level review within five working days of notification of the outcome.  The applicant must resubmit the original request and a written case stating why  the previous review was inadequate. The student may modify his/her original  written case for review and may include additional reasons or evidence.
The application is forwarded through the executive  dean of the faculty responsible for the unit to the faculty review committee  for consideration within 10 working days of receipt of the application. The  faculty review committee is a sub-committee of the faculty academic board  comprising, at a minimum, the executive dean or nominee (as Chair), a member of  academic staff and a student representative appointed by the faculty academic  board, none of whom were involved in previous levels of this review. The quorum  of the committee is three. The committee may seek written input from the  relevant unit and course coordinators. The committee checks that correct  processes have been followed, assesses the adequacy of the school's response to  the student's case, and considers any new matters included in the student's  written case.
If the faculty review committee determines that the school  level review has been conducted appropriately and the student's case properly  answered, the committee endorses the outcome of the review, and so advises the  executive dean. If the committee determines that grounds exist for further  review it either recommends that the executive dean considers these grounds and  makes a decision on the case or it returns the case to the relevant head of  school, who considers the grounds and advises the outcome to a reconvened  meeting of the committee. The committee considers the response from the head of  school and, if satisfied that the school response is appropriate and the  student's case properly answered, endorses the outcome of the review, and so  advises the executive dean. If the faculty review committee is still not  satisfied, it advises the outcome and the reasons to the executive dean who  then deals executively with the matter.
On the advice of the executive dean, the Registrar  advises the applicant of the outcome normally within 15 working days of receipt  of the application. Advice of the response to the application for review must  include a response to the student's case and the reasons for the decision.
The faculty review committee monitors the number and  type of reviews conducted and reports on its activities to the faculty academic  board.
Top 
9.1.2 Review of academic rulings 
Students who have received notification of an academic  ruling made under the Student Rules, and who wish to be provided with further  information on the basis and implications of the ruling, should contact the  relevant faculty office.
Examples of areas where academic rulings are made include advanced standing applications, amendment of enrolment program,  prerequisite waivers, leave of absence, or special consideration.
If, after having received  further information, the student believes that an error has been made or that a  ruling is unjust, the student may apply for a review in accordance with Student  Rule 46(2). Application procedures can be found on the Student Services website (Review 
  of Academic Ruling).
  Applications must be submitted to the Registrar within  10 working days of the date of notification of a ruling.
  The relevant executive dean of faculty determines the  form of the review. A review may lead to no change or to either a less  favourable or more favourable outcome for the student. The Registrar advises  students of the outcome of reviews.
Top 
9.1.3 Status of students awaiting the outcome of a review 
The University will make determinations on reviews as  soon as practicable, but will not necessarily resolve any particular case  before the close of enrolments for the next teaching period. Students whose  review will not be resolved before the commencement of the teaching period  (where the delay is not the fault of the student) are permitted to enrol in  units within the course of study. Students must consult the course coordinator  about the enrolment program they will undertake while awaiting the outcome of a  review. When the review process is finalised, the student remains bound by the  ruling or by the consequences of the grade which was the subject of the review  and, if so determined by the University, is responsible for withdrawing from  nominated unit enrolments. There will be no adverse academic or financial  consequences provided the withdrawal occurs within five working days of the  date of notification of the ruling.
Top 
Related Documents 
MOPP C/5.3 Procedures for academic dishonesty
MOPP E/4.1 Student admission
MOPP E/6.4 Supplementary assessment
  MOPP E/6.7 Unsatisfactory academic performance and exclusion
Top 
Modification History 
Date
Sections
Source
Details
   13.11.09
   All
   University Academic Board
  Periodic  review &ndash; minor editorial changes only
01.12.05
E/9.1.1
University Academic Board
Revised policy to clarify issues relating to timeliness of response and articulation of the
      role of unit coordinator - effective from 01.01.2006 (endorsed by Academic Policy and Procedures
    Committee 02.11.2005)
26.09.03
All
University Academic Board
New policy (effective from 01.01.2004)(endorsed by Academic Policy and 
      Procedures Committee 30.07.2003)
Top 
    Chapter A | Chapter B | Chapter C | Chapter D | Chapter E | Chapter F | Chapter G | Chapter H | Chapter I | Appendices | Protocol for MOPP Policy | Recent Updates
    QUT Home | MOPP Home
    CRICOS No. 00213J
    Privacy | Copyright | Accessibility
    Last modified 12-May-2010
    Contact us | Feedback | Disclaimer
