QUT | MOPP | E/9.2 Grievance resolution procedures for student related grievances
            QUT&nbsp;Home
          Contact&nbsp;us
          Search
      MOPP Home
      Protocol for MOPP Policy
      Recent Updates
      E/9.2 Grievance resolution procedures for student related grievances
Chapters
A - Governance/Organisation
B - Human Resources
C - Learning/Teaching
D - Research/Development
E - Student Administration
F - Information Management
G - Financial Management
H - Physical Facilities
I - International/Community
MOPP Appendices
MOPP Protocol
MOPP Updates
[Print-friendly version]
Contact OfficerStudent Ombudsman 
Approval Date26/04/2007
Approval AuthorityVice-Chancellor 
Date of Next Review01/01/2010 
9.2.1 Principles  
9.2.2 Application 
  9.2.3 Definitions  
9.2.4 Choices 
9.2.5 Formal Procedures
9.2.6 Other considerations
Related Documents 
  Modification History 
9.2.1 Principles  
These procedures deal with grievances involving students in accordance with QUT's grievance resolution policy, and cover undergraduate and postgraduate  coursework students. The grievance resolution policy (see A/6.1) outlines the  University's commitment to ensuring an environment for working and learning  that is harmonious, fair and just. The policy is underpinned by the principles  of natural justice and procedural fairness, and emphasises the need to resolve  the grievance as early as possible and as close to the source as possible. The  policy requires that all grievances be dealt with in a supportive environment  without victimisation or intimidation of anyone connected with the grievance  either during or subsequent to a grievance resolution procedure.
Top 
9.2.2 Application 
  These procedures will apply in any grievance except as outlined in clause (b) below, where at least one of the complainant or the respondent is a QUT student. These procedures are limited to apply to grievances arising from QUT activities, whether on or off campus, normally but not exclusively of a teaching, learning or administrative nature. In particular, these procedures may apply in, but are not limited to, the following situations:
     grievances concerning academic  or administrative decisions 
     grievances concerning delivery  or quality of a product or service by QUT 
     grievances concerning  behaviour of an individual or individuals. 
  These procedures will not apply if the subject of the grievance relates to the following:
    matters where neither the complainant nor the respondent is fulfilling the role of student in the grievance 
    matters where procedures are already specified in the QUT Student Rules (see Appendix  1(c)) with the exception of final appeals at the completion of these procedures; in particular these relate to 
      academic dishonesty (including cheating and plagiarism) 
      review of grades 
      academic rulings 
      admission and exclusion 
    harassment or discrimination 
    decisions of QUT Council 
    the content of approved University policy 
    matters where the complainant or the respondent have engaged an external agency such as the Queensland Ombudsman or a legal practitioner. 
  Where it is considered by the Student Ombudsman that the alleged actions or behaviours of a staff member which constitute the grievance may involve misconduct or serious misconduct as defined in the relevant enterprise bargaining agreement or policy, the Student Ombudsman must report the matter to the Vice-Chancellor. The Vice-Chancellor may decide to handle the matter in accordance with the relevant procedures for misconduct and serious misconduct 1 . 
  Except in special circumstances, as determined by the Registrar in consultation with the Student Ombudsman, a grievance may not be lodged later than six months after the date on which the grievance was alleged to have arisen. 
1 Clause 44, Enterprise Bargaining  Agreement (Academic Staff) for an academic staff member; Clause 49, Enterprise  Bargaining Agreement (Professional Staff) for a professional staff member; Disciplinary  Action for Misconduct and Serious Misconduct - Senior Staff (MOPP B/8.5) for a  senior staff member; or QUT Student Code of Conduct (E/2.1)
Top 
9.2.3 Definitions  
Grievance
 A "grievance" is a real or perceived  cause for complaint, disagreement, conflict, dispute or similar problem.
Complainant
 A "complainant" is an individual or  several individuals who claim to have experienced a negative or unfavourable  impact arising from a stated grievance.
Respondent
 A "respondent" is an individual or  several individuals who are alleged by a complainant to be responsible for the  circumstances comprising the grievance.
Discrimination  related matter
A "discrimination-related" matter is  defined in detail in the Grievance Resolution Procedures for Discrimination  Related Grievances (see A/8.5). Such matters relate to  unfair treatment based on irrelevant factors such as a person's race,  disability, gender etc. 
Top 
9.2.4 Choices  
  Informal resolution 
     A complainant is strongly encouraged to resolve the matter directly with the respondent, and every assistance will be given to facilitate this. However, the complainant is not obliged to do so before applying these procedures. 
  Formal resolution 
    A complainant may apply formal procedures as outlined in E/9.2.5 below to resolve a grievance. 
  External agencies 
    A complainant may use an external agency to resolve a grievance, for example by taking the grievance to the Queensland Ombudsman; however, QUT is committed to facilitating the resolution of grievances without the need  to make recourse to external agencies. 
If a complainant, while participating in these procedures, also chooses to involve an  external agency then: 
    the Student Ombudsman must be notified in writing 
    the Student Ombudsman, in  consultation with the Registrar, will determine whether or not formal proceedings will cease. In the event of cessation of proceedings before a resolution is achieved, all decisions and agreements arising from these  procedures will be void and all records will be annotated accordingly.
Top 
9.2.5 Formal Procedures 
  Level One - Early conciliation and informal resolution 
    The complainant will advise the Student Ombudsman, preferably in writing, of the nature of their grievance and the form of resolution they seek. The Student Ombudsman may facilitate the process and refer the complainant to support services (see clause (e) below) where appropriate. Where agreed to by the complainant, the Student Ombudsman may elect to handle the complaint in the first instance by discussions with the respondent to facilitate the resolution of the grievance. Such discussions need not be  notified to the supervisor of any staff member involved in the grievance. 
  The Student Ombudsman in consultation with the  complainant may decide to enter the formal Level One procedures and nominate an  appropriate individual to handle the grievance. If the respondent is a staff  member then the grievance will be handled by the relevant supervisor or nominee.  If the respondent is a student, the grievance will be handled by the Student  Ombudsman or nominee. Resolution may involve: 
    consultation with another appropriate person; 
    liaison with University support services; 
    acting as a mediator in the conflict; and 
    facilitating a conciliation or mediation meeting between the complainant and the respondent and other relevant interested persons. 
  The complainant and/or the respondent may elect  to be supported by a person of choice who could be a representative of the QUT  Student Guild or of the relevant staff union. This person must not be a  practising legal officer.
  The complainant, the respondent and the Student Ombudsman must be advised in writing of the resolution.
  The Student Ombudsman may make recommendations for further action as appropriate.
  The process at this level should normally take no  more than 10 working days. This timeline may be extended in light of matters  such as the availability of relevant staff or students. 
  Level Two - Further conciliation and/or investigation 
    Where a grievance is not resolved at Level One of these procedures the complainant may lodge a written request for the Student Ombudsman to refer the matter to the relevant executive dean of faculty (or nominee) or head of division (or nominee) and discuss the appropriate course of action with  the Student Ombudsman. The executive dean of faculty or head of division may undertake any of the following to resolve the grievance:
    discuss with the parties options for resolution 
    consider all relevant matters and where appropriate make further enquiries 
    discuss the situation with the complainant and other parties to the grievance in an attempt to conciliate the grievance 
    conduct an investigation or, on the advice of the Student Ombudsman, appoint a trained person to do so on their behalf. 
  The complainant and/or the respondent may elect  to be supported by a person of choice who could be a representative of the QUT  Student Guild or of the relevant staff union. This person must not be a  practising legal officer.
  The complainant, the respondent and the Student  Ombudsman must be advised in writing of the resolution and of any  recommendations for action as a result of the investigation.
  Where appropriate, the Student Ombudsman may make  recommendations to the executive dean of faculty or others for further action.
  The process at this level should normally take no  more than 15 working days. This time line may be extended in light of matters  such as the availability of relevant staff or students. 
  Level Three - Investigation and determination by panel
    Where the grievance is not resolved at Level Two of these procedures the complainant may lodge a written application to the Student Ombudsman to implement a formal process to investigate the grievance. The Student Ombudsman, in consultation with the complainant, will elect for this investigation to be undertaken by the Student Ombudsman or by a panel constituted by the Student Ombudsman. If constituted, the panel will consist of: 
      an independent Chair (internal to the University)
      a senior staff member of the University 
      a nominee of the Vice-Chancellor, in consultation with the QUT  Student Guild.
  The complainant and/or the respondent may elect  to be supported by a person of choice who could be a representative of the QUT  Student Guild or of the relevant staff union. This person must not be a  practising legal officer.
  In carrying out this investigation and reaching a  resolution, the following steps should be included: 
    interview and/or take written statements from the complainant 
    interview and/or take written statements from the respondent 
    interview and/or take written statements from all relevant people involved in the matter 
    interview and/or take written statements from the personnel who handled the grievance at Levels One and  Two 
    review all relevant documents 
    consider the grievance in the context of QUT policy 
    seek advice from any person deemed appropriate 
    give the complainant and the respondent opportunity to respond to all relevant information gathered. 
  Where a panel has been constituted, it will determine if the grievance is substantiated and will recommend actions to the  Student Ombudsman, noting if there are mitigating circumstances. The Student  Ombudsman will recommend actions to the appropriate QUT officer. The complainant  and the respondent must be advised in writing of the determination and of any  recommendations for action as a result of the determination.
  Where appropriate the Student Ombudsman may make recommendations for further action to the Registrar.
  The process at this level should normally take no more than 15 working days. This timeline may be extended in light of matters  such as the availability of relevant staff or students. 
  Requirement to participate at each level 
  Staff and/or students involved in these procedures must participate in good faith. The complainant cannot proceed to Level Three of the formal resolution process without having attempted to resolve the matter at Levels One and Two. 
  Support services 
  It is recognised that in applying these procedures the complainant or respondent may require support. Options for accessing QUT's support services will be explored by the Student Ombudsman before applying these procedures.
Top
9.2.6 Other considerations
  Vexatious grievances 
    If a grievance is found to be vexatious then appropriate action against the complainant may be considered, including appropriate misconduct proceedings. 
  Student satisfaction 
    When a matter is resolved at the end of any of Levels One, Two or Three, persons involved in the grievance will be surveyed anonymously to monitor satisfaction and to obtain feedback on the effectiveness of these procedures. This survey will be conducted by the Office of the Student Ombudsman (or nominee) in consultation with the Registrar (or nominee). 
  Duty of disclosure 
    By participating in these procedures, a complainant agrees that the nature of their grievance may be disclosed to the Director, Corporate Finance. Such disclosure is for the purpose of liability assessment and may be done anonymously. 
  Victimisation 
    Disciplinary action in accordance with relevant University policies may be taken against any person who victimises another person because of their involvement in these grievance resolution procedures, or because of their support of a complainant or a respondent. Such victimisation could include, for example, harassing or bullying the respondent or complainant, making overt or implied threats about a person's academic or career progress, or bias in the assessment of a student's academic work.
Related Documents
  MOPP A/6.1 Grievance  resolution policy
MOPP A/8.5 Grievance  resolution procedures for discrimination related grievances
MOPP E/9.3 Student  Ombudsman
Top
Modification History
Date
Sections
Source
Details
   26.04.07 
   All 
   Vice-Chancellor
  Revised grievance  resolution procedures 
24.07.02
E/9.2
Vice-Chancellor
Approved new student grievance procedures
Top 
    Chapter A | Chapter B | Chapter C | Chapter D | Chapter E | Chapter F | Chapter G | Chapter H | Chapter I | Appendices | Protocol for MOPP Policy | Recent Updates
    QUT Home | MOPP Home
    CRICOS No. 00213J
    Privacy | Copyright | Accessibility
    Last modified 31-Aug-2010
    Contact us | Feedback | Disclaimer
