QUT | MOPP | E/10.4 University medals
            QUT&nbsp;Home
          Contact&nbsp;us
          Search
      MOPP Home
      Protocol for MOPP Policy
      Recent Updates
      E/10.4 University medals
Chapters
A - Governance/Organisation
B - Human Resources
C - Learning/Teaching
D - Research/Development
E - Student Administration
F - Information Management
G - Financial Management
H - Physical Facilities
I - International/Community
MOPP Appendices
MOPP Protocol
MOPP Updates
[Print-friendly version]
Contact OfficerCeremonies Officer, Student Support Services Department 
Approval Date14/11/2008
Approval AuthorityUniversity Academic Board 
Date of Next Review01/01/2012 
10.4.1 Policy 
10.4.2 Eligibility 
10.4.3 Number of medals to be awarded 
10.4.4 Procedure 
10.4.5 Award 
Related Documents 
Modification History 
10.4.1 Policy 
The University may award medals, known as Queensland University of Technology
  Medals, to graduands of certain courses who have achieved an exceptionally
  high level of performance in their studies. For the award of a medal, a graduand
  should have normally achieved a minimum grade point average of 6.5 across all
  units and thesis where such is required. Medals are awarded by the Registrar,
  on behalf of University Academic Board, on the recommendation of the relevant
  faculty academic board. The medal should be testimony that the recipient not
  only shows exceptional academic promise at the time of the award, but also
  exhibits an exceptional and consistent record of achievement throughout the
whole of the degree.
Top 
10.4.2 Eligibility 
Eligibility to be considered for the award of a University medal is limited to
graduands of 'end-on' honours degrees (see 
C/3.2.4
    where performance in the related bachelor degree is also taken into account
graduands of degrees with honours (see 
C/5.2.5
    including components of double degree programs where awards with honours are made
graduands of bachelor degrees of at least three years normal duration where no honours award is
    available, including relevant components of double degree programs where no honours award is available.
In completing one of the above degrees, graduands must have been enrolled at QUT for at least two
  years of full-time study or equivalent. The two years of study at QUT must be directly relevant to
  the course for which the medal is awarded.
For graduands of double degrees, University medals are awarded as appropriate for each of the component
  degrees (see 
C/3.2.9
Top 
10.4.3 Number of medals to be awarded 
As the University medal is awarded only for exceptional achievement, University
  Academic Board has indicated as a guide to faculties that the proportion of
  graduands who may receive medals in any year should normally be not more than
one per 200 bachelor-level graduands (or part thereof) per faculty.
Based on the guideline of 1 in 200 graduands, faculties should determine a
  grade point average (GPA) cut-off of 6.5 or higher for nominees in any given
  year based on the cohort graduating at the first (usually the largest) ceremony
  of the year. This GPA should be applied for all later graduands in that academic
  year.
Faculties should endeavour to maintain some consistency in medal nominations
from year to year. Consequently, it is possible that in some years faculties
would choose not to make nominations for medals, if GPA standards of the graduating
cohort fall below the exceptional level.
Top 
10.4.4 Procedure 
Faculty academic boards make  recommendation to the Registrar for the award of University medals,  using the proforma found on the University Academic Board website.  Where  possible this should be done at the same time as recommendations  for conferral of awards are forwarded from the Student Business Services  Department &nbsp;to ensure that a recipient may be awarded   their medal at the ceremony at which  their degree is conferred, and nominations may therefore be made prior to each  graduation ceremony.
Once all medal recommendations have been received and approved, the Registrar
  will provide a report on approvals to University Academic Board.
If a medal recommendation does not meet the eligibility criteria set out in
  E/10.4.2 above, the recommendation will be forwarded by the Registrar to University
  Academic Board for consideration. University Academic Board is responsible
  for determining policy and eligibility criteria for University medals.
The Ceremonies Officer is responsible for:
collating the recommendations from faculties for presentation to the Registrar
advising the faculties, the Student Business Services Department and Ceremonies
    Office staff when the Registrar has approved the recommendations;
retaining the statement in support of recommendations, provided as part
    of the proforma, for ceremonial use.
Top 
10.4.5 Award 
The award is a silver medallion, suitably embossed and inscribed, together with a certificate attesting
  the award. The medallion is 5.5 centimetres square with rounded corners. The QUT logo is embossed on
  one side and the reverse carries an inscription citing the year of the award and the name of the awardee.
Further details may be placed on the certificate.
Top 
Related Documents 
MOPP E/10.1 Graduation requirements
Top 
Modification History 
Date
Sections
Source
Details
  14.11.08
  E/10.4.4
   University Academic Board
  Minor  amendment consistent with procedures for  awarding University medals as outlined in E/10.1  Graduation requirements 
30.06.06
All
University Academic Board
Revised policy relating to minimum GPA requirement
24.03.06
All
University Academic Board
Revised policy consistent with delegation of authority from University Academic
        Board to the Registrar for awarding of University medals; policy renumbered to E/10.4 (formerly
        E/11.7)
01.07.05
All
University Academic Board
Revised policy effective from 01.01.2006 (endorsed by Academic Policy and Procedures
        Committee 15.06.05)
20.06.03
E/10.4.1
University Academic Board
Revised policy (re double degrees)
27.11.98
E/10.4.2
University Academic Board
Revised procedure
27.11.98
E/10.4.3
University Academic Board
Revised
03.08.98
E/10.4.3
Ceremonies Officer
Revised
27.03.98
E/10.4.3
University Academic Board
Amended proforma to require faculties to specify size of pool of bachelor-level
        graduands.
Top 
    Chapter A | Chapter B | Chapter C | Chapter D | Chapter E | Chapter F | Chapter G | Chapter H | Chapter I | Appendices | Protocol for MOPP Policy | Recent Updates
    QUT Home | MOPP Home
    CRICOS No. 00213J
    Privacy | Copyright | Accessibility
    Last modified 12-May-2010
    Contact us | Feedback | Disclaimer
