QUT | MOPP | E/10.1 Graduation requirements
            QUT&nbsp;Home
          Contact&nbsp;us
          Search
      MOPP Home
      Protocol for MOPP Policy
      Recent Updates
      E/10.1 Graduation requirements
Chapters
A - Governance/Organisation
B - Human Resources
C - Learning/Teaching
D - Research/Development
E - Student Administration
F - Information Management
G - Financial Management
H - Physical Facilities
I - International/Community
MOPP Appendices
MOPP Protocol
MOPP Updates
[Print-friendly version]
Contact OfficerDirector, Student Business Services 
Approval Date14/11/2008
Approval AuthorityUniversity Academic Board 
Date of Next Review01/01/2012 
10.1.1 Eligibility to graduate 
10.1.2 Conferral  of awards
10.1.3 Procedure  for conferring awards
  10.1.4 Posthumous  awards 
  10.1.5 Reporting 
  Modification History 
This policy should be read in conjunction with the 
QUT 
  Student Rules
and the procedural information provided on the 
Student 
  Services website.
10.1.1 Eligibility to graduate 
Students are eligible to graduate from an award course upon completion of  all course requirements. Faculty academic boards determine whether a student  has completed all course requirements (see Student Rule 45). For research  higher degree students, Research Degrees Committee determines eligibility to  graduate (see Doctor  of Philosophy Regulations).
Course  requirements may include completion of a required number of credit points and  successful completion of particular units identified in the course structure.
In specific cases, University Academic  Board, acting on advice from a faculty academic board, may waive some course  requirements for individual students under exceptional circumstances related  only to course variations beyond the control of a student.
See C/3.1 for policy on graduation from articulated awards.
Top 
10.1.2 Conferral of awards 
Awards  are conferred by the Registrar under delegated authority from University  Academic Board (subject to a requirement to consult University Academic Board  on any recommendation outside of existing policies and standards), and in  accordance with the Student Rules and Doctor of  Philosophy Regulations.
Top 
10.1.3 Procedure for conferring awards 
The Student Business Services  Department prepares a graduation certification report for consideration by  faculties. The Student Support Services Department offers a place to the  potential graduand at the next available graduation ceremony, subject to the award  being conferred. Course requirements must be completed by a certain date  (usually two to three weeks prior to the ceremony) for the graduand to be  guaranteed a place at the relevant ceremony. After the executive dean of  faculty or faculty academic board / Research Degrees Committee (as appropriate)  has determined students' eligibility to graduate, the names of eligible  graduands are consolidated by the Student Business Services Department and a  list of graduands, including awards with distinction, awards with honours and  University medals (see below) is forwarded to the Registrar  for conferral of the awards.
The Student Services website provides details of the conditions that must be met in order to be  eligible to graduate at a particular ceremony.
Awards with distinction /  awards with honours
The Student Business Services Department  maintains a list of courses that may be awarded with distinction or with  honours (C/5.2), and determines deadlines by which all results are to be recorded on the  student management system. At that date, distinction or honours Grade Point Average  (GPA) reports are produced for those students who have met requirements for  completion of their courses, and any issues are resolved in consultation with  faculties.
University medals
Faculty academic boards recommend to the Registrar on the award of University medals (E/10.4). Where  possible, this should be done at the same time as recommendations for conferral  of awards are forwarded from the Student Business Services Department to ensure  that a recipient may be awarded their medal at the ceremony at which their  degree is conferred.
Doctoral awards
The Research Students Centre prepares a graduation certification report as  doctoral candidates become eligible to graduate. After Research Degrees  Committee has determined candidates' eligibility to graduate, the names of  eligible graduates and citations, as appropriate, are forwarded to the Registrar  and the Student Business Services Department. Following confirmation from the  Registrar that the awards will be conferred by University Academic Board (or  delegate), the Research Students Centre will advise graduands that they may use  the title of &ldquo;Doctor&quot;. The Student Support Services Department then offers  a place to graduands at the next available graduation ceremony.Top 
10.1.4 Posthumous  awards 
Coursework  degrees
The University may award a coursework  degree posthumously if the student at the time of death was enrolled in units  which, if successfully completed, would have completed the course requirements  for the award. In the event that a student was at an earlier stage of the  course, the University may award a certificate of achievement. In either case the  faculty academic board is required to recommend to the Registrar,  through the Student Business Services Department, that a posthumous award or  certificate be granted.
Research  higher degrees
The University may award a research  higher degree posthumously where:
i) the candidate was enrolled at the  time of death; and
ii) the faculty requests a posthumous  award, through Research Degrees Committee, providing evidence to suggest that  at the time of death the candidate had completed 
  research work 
  papers and publications 
  literature reviews, or 
  other tangible research related   activities. 
Where Research Degrees Committee,  based on faculty advice, determines that the candidate had substantially  completed the award at the time of death, it may recommend to the Registrar,  through the Student Business Services Department, that the award be conferred posthumously.
Graduation  program and award parchment - posthumous awards
In the case of a posthumous award, the  deceased's name will be included in the conferral list and graduation program,  and appended with the notation &ldquo;Posthumous award&rdquo;. 
  If the executor or a family member  does not wish to receive the award parchment in person, the parchment will be  posted to the appropriate representative. Top 
10.1.5 Reporting
The Registrar  provides an annual report to University Academic Board on all awards conferred,  including posthumous awards.
Top 
Modification History 
Date
Sections
Source
Details
   14.11.08 
   All
   University Academic Board
  Revised to include  procedure for conferring awards with distinction and with honours (formerly  C/3.5.4 and C/3.6.3) and University medals (formerly E/10.4.4), and to clarify the  process for conferring posthumous awards
  04.04.08
  E/10.1.1
   University Academic Board
  Revised policy &ndash; effective  from 01.01.09 (endorsed by Academic Policy and Procedures Committee 10.03.08)
   12.10.07 
   E/10.1.1, E/10.1.3
   University Academic Board
  Revised policy relating to  conferral of doctoral awards and use of the title of &ldquo;Dr&rdquo; (endorsed by Research  Degrees Committee 06.08.07 and University Research and Innovation Committee 05.09.07)
24.03.06
E/10.1.1, E/10.1.3
University Academic Board
Updated policy consistent with delegation of authority to the Registrar to confer
  awards
15.06.05
All
Student Business Services Department
Policy reviewed - no change required (endorsed by Academic Policy and Procedures
  Committee 15.06.05)
19.11.04
E/10.1.4
University Academic Board
Revised policy to provide for the awarding of research higher degrees posthumously
  (endorsed by University Research and Development Committee 12.11.2004)
14.11.03
All
University Academic Board
New policy (effective from 01.01.2004)
Top 
    Chapter A | Chapter B | Chapter C | Chapter D | Chapter E | Chapter F | Chapter G | Chapter H | Chapter I | Appendices | Protocol for MOPP Policy | Recent Updates
    QUT Home | MOPP Home
    CRICOS No. 00213J
    Privacy | Copyright | Accessibility
    Last modified 12-May-2010
    Contact us | Feedback | Disclaimer
