QUT | MOPP | E/10.2 Award parchments
            QUT&nbsp;Home
          Contact&nbsp;us
          Search
      MOPP Home
      Protocol for MOPP Policy
      Recent Updates
      E/10.2 Award parchments
Chapters
A - Governance/Organisation
B - Human Resources
C - Learning/Teaching
D - Research/Development
E - Student Administration
F - Information Management
G - Financial Management
H - Physical Facilities
I - International/Community
MOPP Appendices
MOPP Protocol
MOPP Updates
[Print-friendly version]
    Contact Officer
      Ceremonies Officer, Student Support Services Department
    Approval Date
      14/11/2008
    Approval Authority
      University Academic Board
    Date of Next Review
      01/01/2012
10.2.1 Definition of award parchment 
10.2.2 Form of award parchments
10.2.3 Replacement and substitute award parchments 
  Related Documents 
  Modification History 
  This policy should be read in conjunction with the 
  QUT 
  Student Rules
  and the procedural information provided on the 
  Student 
  Services website.
Top 
10.2.1 Definition of award parchment 
Award parchments are issued to students who have completed their course requirements 
  and who have had an award conferred  (see 
E/10.1.1
  Parchments are issued under seal (see 
A/1.4
Top 
10.2.2 Form of award parchments 
Parchments contain the following generic details: the name of the university, 
university logo, signatures of the Chancellor, Vice-Chancellor and Registrar and 
the QUT seal.
Parchments contain the following specific details: the graduand's name, the graduand's student number,
  appropriate award nomenclature (see below), the degree/award title, the date of conferral and, where
relevant, the study area and whether the award is granted with distinction or honours.
In rare and exceptional circumstances, the  Registrar may approve in principle a proposal to dual badge award parchments  for a particular course. This approval should occur prior to the formal  approval of the specified course. The final form of any dual-badged parchment  will be determined by the Registrar.
Parchments for degrees (and associate degrees) contain different nomenclature 
  to that of associate diplomas, diplomas, graduate certificates and graduate 
  diplomas.
Nomenclature for degrees is: 
"[Name] having fulfilled all the conditions prescribed by the University has 
  been admitted to the degree of [name of award]". 
  See 
QUT's 
  Corporate Identity Manual
for an example.
Nomenclature for associate diplomas, diplomas, graduate certificates and graduate 
  diplomas is:
"[Name] having fulfilled all the conditions prescribed by the University 
  has been awarded the [name of award]"
University Academic Board may approve the recording of one study area on award 
  parchments. Information about which study areas are approved for inclusion on 
  award parchments can be found on the Learning and Teaching Unit website under course and study areas. Refer also to policy on study 
  areas in 
C/3.1.3
Top 
10.2.3 Replacement and substitute award parchments 
a) Definition
A 'replacement' parchment replaces a parchment issued originally by the Queensland 
University of Technology.
A 'substitute' parchment substitutes a parchment issued originally by predecessors 
  of Queensland University of Technology (including Brisbane College of Advanced 
  Education, Brisbane Kindergarten Teachers' College, Kedron Park Teachers' College, 
  Kelvin Grove Teachers' College, Kelvin Grove College of Teacher Education, Kelvin 
  Grove College of Advanced Education, North Brisbane College of Advanced Education, 
  Queensland Institute of Technology, and the [Queensland] Teachers' Training 
  College).
Substitute parchments will not be issued for parchments issued originally 
  by Education Queensland or bodies not currently associated with higher education.
b) Conditions under which award parchments may be replaced or substituted
Replacement and substitute parchments will be issued subject to the following 
  conditions:
  where the original parchment has been       lost in transmission or subsequently, and a statutory declaration is submitted       to that effect; 
   where the original parchment was       defective or has been damaged, and the parchment is returned;
   where a change of name has been       requested (certified copies of supporting documentation must be provided). 
Replacement or substitute parchments  will be issued free of charge where the original was lost or damaged in  transmission from the University, or was defective. A fee will be charged in  all other cases.
c) Form of parchments
All replacement and substitute  parchments will be produced on QUT proforma and, except where a replica is  issued as a replacement, will be produced using the proforma current at the  time of issue of the replacement or substitute, and will incorporate the  signatures of the incumbent Chancellor, Vice-Chancellor and Registrar.
The student's name on the  replacement and substitute parchments will be the same as on the original  parchment unless they have requested a change of name. In exceptional  circumstances the Registrar may approve variations to the application of this  policy.
d) Endorsements
i) Replacement parchments
Replacement parchments will carry no endorsement where the original parchment 
  can be replicated in every respect. The University cannot guarantee to provide 
  replicas in every instance.
However, where there has been any change in the proforma itself, the QUT seal, 
  or the signatories, and no stock of the original is available, a replacement 
  parchment will be endorsed as follows:
'This parchment is a replacement for a parchment issued under the QUT seal 
    on (day, month, year appearing on original parchment) (under the name of {name 
    appearing on original parchment} ).'
ii) Substitute parchments
Substitute parchments will carry one of the following endorsements, as appropriate, 
  in every case:
'This parchment is a substitute for a parchment (number - if known) issued 
    on (day, month, year appearing on original parchment) (under the name of {name 
    appearing on original parchment} ) by (institution), which was incorporated 
    into Queensland University of Technology on 1 May 1990.'
or 
'This parchment is a substitute for a parchment issued on (day, month, year 
    appearing on original parchment) (under the name of {name appearing on original 
    parchment} ) by Queensland Institute of Technology which became Queensland 
    University of Technology on 1 January 1989.'
Top 
Related Documents 
MOPP A/1.4 QUT seal
MOPP E/10.1 Graduation  requirements
Top 
Modification History 
Date
Sections
Source
Details
  11.02.11
  All
  Governance Services
  Revised terms of reference due to name change from Office of Teaching Quality to Learning and Teaching Unit
  14.11.08
   E/10.2.3
  University Academic Board
  Revised policy to clarify  conditions for replacement or substitute award parchments
  12.09.08
  E/10.2.2
  University Academic Board
  Revised policy relating to  dual badging (endorsed by Academic Policy and Procedures Committee 25.08.08)
08.06.06
E/10.2.1, E/10.2.2
Student Business Services Department
Minor editorial amendment consistent with delegation of authority to the Registrar to confer
        awards (approved by University Academic Board 24.03.06)
01.07.05
E/10.2.2
University Academic Board
Amended requirements for parchment details to include graduand's student number (effective from
      September 2005)
14.11.03
All
University Academic Board
New policy (effective from 01.01.2004)
Top 
    Chapter A | Chapter B | Chapter C | Chapter D | Chapter E | Chapter F | Chapter G | Chapter H | Chapter I | Appendices | Protocol for MOPP Policy | Recent Updates
    QUT Home | MOPP Home
    CRICOS No. 00213J
    Privacy | Copyright | Accessibility
    Last modified 10-Feb-2011
    Contact us | Feedback | Disclaimer
