QUT | MOPP | E/11.3 Industry sponsored student scholarships
            QUT&nbsp;Home
          Contact&nbsp;us
          Search
      MOPP Home
      Protocol for MOPP Policy
      Recent Updates
      E/11.3 Industry sponsored student scholarships
Chapters
A - Governance/Organisation
B - Human Resources
C - Learning/Teaching
D - Research/Development
E - Student Administration
F - Information Management
G - Financial Management
H - Physical Facilities
I - International/Community
MOPP Appendices
MOPP Protocol
MOPP Updates
[Print-friendly version]
Contact OfficerDevelopment Officer - Scholarships 
Approval Date24/01/2003
Approval AuthorityVice-Chancellor 
Date of Next Review01/01/2005 
11.3.1 Description 
11.3.2 Procedure 
11.3.3 Donor recognition 
11.3.4 Roles and responsibilities 
Modification History
    THIS POLICY IS CURRENTLY UNDER REVIEW - CONTACT EXECUTIVE OFFICER, DIVISION OF INTERNATIONAL AND DEVELOPMENT, FOR FURTHER DETAILS.    
11.3.1 Description 
Scholarships are established to help support students through their course of study. As a minimum, they cover the cost of the student contribution amount, Student Guild fees, text books and essential study resources such as stationery and travel allowance.
Some donors may wish to let the student choose to have the scholarship cover the above or be given as a stipend. If the scholarship funds are not used principally for education purposes, the scholarship may be taxed subject to determination by the Australian Taxation Office.
Scholarships may be offered in any year of a student's course. Most donors choose to sponsor a student in their third or fourth year. Some choose to sponsor the student for more than one year.
The minimum value of new externally funded scholarships is calculated based upon the student contribution for the discipline band within which the course falls and includes an allowance to cover Student Guild fees, text books and essential study resources. Information on current levels of support for student scholarships is available from the QUT Alumni and Development Office.
Details of which courses fall within each band is available from the Student Services website.
Top 
11.3.2 Procedure 
Selection of the recipient usually takes place in Semester 2 for the following 
  academic year.
The donor organisation and/or QUT will shortlist applicants based on specific 
  selection criteria (eg GPA, personal achievements, leadership) and both the 
  donor and QUT will interview the shortlisted students to select the scholarship 
  recipient.
The selection panel normally comprises one representative from the donor organisation 
  and one representative from QUT.
QUT normally seeks a minimum commitment from the donor for a period of no less 
  than three years, reviewable annually. A Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) defining 
  the criteria of the scholarship is to be developed and signed by a representative 
  of the donor organisation and the relevant QUT faculty.
Faculties may organise their own presentation ceremonies to present scholarships. 
  A representative of the organisation will usually be invited to present the 
  scholarship to the student. Donors may also choose to award the student at their 
  own function.
Top 
11.3.3 Donor recognition 
Donors are recognised when students are presented with their scholarship at 
  faculty ceremonies or scholarship presentations.
Donors are encouraged to produce a flyer to promote the scholarship to students, 
  which is placed on faculty and school noticeboards.
Donors also receive the following benefits:
promotion on the faculty website, via emails and in relevant QUT and faculty 
  publications
invitations to faculty events
privileged access and ongoing involvement with top QUT students for recruitment 
  purposes
invitation to participate in guest lectures
access to expertise, information and research outcomes accrued by students;
participation on the scholarship selection panel, and
invitation to the relevant faculty presentation ceremony to award the student.
Donor organisations may also wish to separately offer the student paid work 
  experience. Where there is a work component, in some cases the scholarship may 
  be subject to tax.
Top 
11.3.4 Roles and responsibilities 
The Alumni and Development Office is responsible for the soliciting of scholarships and 
  approaches to potential donors in conjunction with faculties. The Alumni and Development Office coordinates all solicitation of scholarships and is to be informed and 
  involved in the establishment of any new scholarships.
Scholarships are administered by the faculties and the faculties are responsible 
  for coordinating payment to recipients. The Alumni and Development Office is responsible 
  for invoicing and receipting donors each year.
The Development Officer (Scholarships) will coordinate regular contact and 
  accountability between QUT and the donor, ensuring regular reporting and updating 
  between both organisations.
Top 
Modification History 
Date
Sections
Source
Details
15.12.04
E/11.3.1
Acting Registrar
Editorial amendment (consistent with Higher Education Support Act 2003)
24.01.03
All
Vice-Chancellor
Revised policy and increased minimum value of new scholarships
4.11.1998
E/11.3
Vice-Chancellor
Revised to include minimum level of support for undergraduate scholarships
Top 
    Chapter A | Chapter B | Chapter C | Chapter D | Chapter E | Chapter F | Chapter G | Chapter H | Chapter I | Appendices | Protocol for MOPP Policy | Recent Updates
    QUT Home | MOPP Home
    CRICOS No. 00213J
    Privacy | Copyright | Accessibility
    Last modified 29-Nov-2010
    Contact us | Feedback | Disclaimer
