QUT | MOPP | E/11.2 Industry sponsored student bursaries
            QUT&nbsp;Home
          Contact&nbsp;us
          Search
      MOPP Home
      Protocol for MOPP Policy
      Recent Updates
      E/11.2 Industry sponsored student bursaries
Chapters
A - Governance/Organisation
B - Human Resources
C - Learning/Teaching
D - Research/Development
E - Student Administration
F - Information Management
G - Financial Management
H - Physical Facilities
I - International/Community
MOPP Appendices
MOPP Protocol
MOPP Updates
[Print-friendly version]
Contact OfficerRelevant Faculty Prize Officer 
Approval Date24/01/2003
Approval AuthorityVice-Chancellor 
Date of Next Review01/01/2005 
11.2.1 Description 
11.2.2 Procedure 
11.2.3 Donor recognition 
11.2.4 Roles and responsibilities 
Modification History
    THIS POLICY IS CURRENTLY UNDER REVIEW - CONTACT EXECUTIVE OFFICER, DIVISION OF INTERNATIONAL AND DEVELOPMENT, FOR FURTHER DETAILS.
11.2.1 Description 
A bursary is a study stipend which may be awarded to students based on their performance in a particular subject or other selection criteria agreed to by QUT and the donor. The bursary may cover a portion of the student contribution amount, Student Guild fees, text books or other study resources.
The minimum value of new externally funded undergraduate bursaries across all faculties is normally $2,000.
Top 
11.2.2 Procedure 
Students are normally selected based on a written application addressing specific 
  selection criteria agreed to by the donor and QUT.
No interview takes place. Applications are normally assessed by the relevant 
  faculty representatives and the donor is notified of the bursary recipient.
QUT normally seeks a minimum commitment from the donor for a period of no less 
  than three years, reviewable annually. QUT requires a signed letter from the 
  donor detailing the criteria of the bursary and the donor's commitment to offering 
  the bursary for a specified period of time. A copy of this letter should be 
  filed in the QUT Alumni and Development Office.
Faculties normally hold their own presentation ceremonies where a representative 
  of the organisation will usually be invited to present the bursary to the student. 
  Donors may also choose to award the student at their own function.
Top 
11.2.3 Donor recognition 
Donors are recognised when students are presented with their bursary at faculty 
  ceremonies.
Donors also receive the following benefits:
promotion of the bursary on the faculty website and relevant QUT and 
  faculty publications
e-mail notification to students who are eligible to apply, and
invitation to the relevant faculty ceremony to award the student.
Top 
11.2.4 Roles and responsibilities 
Individual faculties are responsible for the soliciting of bursaries and approaches 
  to potential donors. The Alumni and Development Office coordinates all solicitation of 
  bursaries and must be consulted before the establishment of any new bursaries.
Bursaries are administered by the faculties and the faculties are responsible 
  for coordinating payment to recipients. The Alumni and Development Office is responsible 
  for invoicing and receipting donors each year.
Top 
Modification History 
Date
Sections
Source
Details
15.12.04
E/11.2.1
Acting Registrar
Editorial amendment (consistent with Higher Education Support Act 2003)
24.01.03
All
Vice-Chancellor
New Policy
Top 
    Chapter A | Chapter B | Chapter C | Chapter D | Chapter E | Chapter F | Chapter G | Chapter H | Chapter I | Appendices | Protocol for MOPP Policy | Recent Updates
    QUT Home | MOPP Home
    CRICOS No. 00213J
    Privacy | Copyright | Accessibility
    Last modified 12-May-2010
    Contact us | Feedback | Disclaimer
