QUT | MOPP | E/11.4 Industry Sponsored Memorial prizes, bursaries and scholarships
            QUT&nbsp;Home
          Contact&nbsp;us
          Search
      MOPP Home
      Protocol for MOPP Policy
      Recent Updates
      E/11.4 Industry Sponsored Memorial prizes, bursaries and scholarships
Chapters
A - Governance/Organisation
B - Human Resources
C - Learning/Teaching
D - Research/Development
E - Student Administration
F - Information Management
G - Financial Management
H - Physical Facilities
I - International/Community
MOPP Appendices
MOPP Protocol
MOPP Updates
[Print-friendly version]
Contact OfficerDevelopment Officer - Scholarships 
Approval Date24/01/2003
Approval AuthorityVice-Chancellor 
Date of Next Review01/01/2005 
11.4.1 Description 
11.4.2 Procedure 
11.4.3 Donor Recognition 
11.4.4 Roles and Responsibilities 
Modification History
    THIS POLICY IS CURRENTLY UNDER REVIEW - CONTACT EXECUTIVE OFFICER, DIVISION OF INTERNATIONAL AND DEVELOPMENT, FOR FURTHER DETAILS.
11.4.1 Description 
A memorial prize, bursary or scholarship is established in memory of a person 
  who has passed away and is awarded in the chosen person's name.
The donor may choose to establish a memorial prize, bursary or scholarship 
  in one of two ways:
an 
endowment
, whereby it is 
      awarded each year in perpetuity
annual instalments, whereby the donor pays QUT the value of the prize, bursary 
  or scholarship each year, for a minimum of five years.
The value of a memorial prize, bursary or scholarship endowment is calculated 
  in accordance with the guidelines outlined in QUT's Industry sponsored prize, 
  bursary and scholarship endowments policy (see 
E/11.5
If the donor chooses to pay annual instalments, each instalment is equal to 
  the value of the prize, bursary or scholarship offered each year.
Top 
11.4.2 Procedure 
The recipients of memorial prizes, bursaries and scholarships are selected 
  in accordance with the selection procedures below.
Prizes and awards
are normally presented to students who demonstrate 
  outstanding academic achievement in a nominated subject or course. Other appropriate 
  criteria may be negotiated, where appropriate.
For 
bursaries
, students are normally selected based on a written application 
  addressing specific selection criteria agreed to by the donor and QUT. No interview 
  takes place. Applications are normally assessed by the relevant faculty representatives 
  and the donor is notified of the bursary recipient.
For 
scholarships
, selection of the recipient usually takes place in 
  Semester 2 for the following academic year. The donor organisation and/or QUT 
  will shortlist applicants based on specific selection criteria (eg GPA, personal 
  achievements, leadership) and both the donor and QUT will interview the shortlisted 
  students to select the scholarship recipient. The selection panel normally comprises 
  one representative from the donor organisation and one representative from QUT.
To establish a memorial prize, bursary or scholarship, QUT seeks a minimum 
  commitment from the donor for a period of no less than five years, reviewable 
  annually.
A Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) defining the criteria of the award is to 
  be developed and signed by a representative of the donor organisation and the 
  relevant QUT faculty.
Faculties may organise their own presentation ceremonies to present memorial 
  prizes, bursaries and scholarships. A representative of the organisation will 
  usually be invited to present the award to the student. Donors may also choose 
  to award the student at their own function.
Top 
11.4.3 Donor Recognition 
Donors are recognised when students are presented with their award at faculty 
  ceremonies or scholarship presentations. Details of memorial prizes, bursaries 
  and scholarships received by a student are usually included in their academic 
  record.
The benefits donors receive depend on their level of support. Refer to 
E/11.1.3
E/11.2.3
and 
E/11.3.3
for details of donor recognition.
Top 
11.4.4 Roles and Responsibilities 
The Alumni and Development Office is responsible for the soliciting of memorial prizes, 
  bursaries and scholarships and approaches to potential donors in conjunction 
  with faculties. The Alumni and Development Office coordinates all solicitation of memorial 
  prizes, bursaries and scholarships and must be informed and involved in the 
establishment of any new memorial prizes, bursaries or scholarships.
Memorial prizes, bursaries and scholarships are administered by the faculties 
  and the faculties are responsible for coordinating payment to recipients. The 
Alumni and Development Office is responsible for invoicing and receipting donors each year.
For memorial scholarships, the Development Officer (Scholarships) will coordinate 
  regular contact and accountability between QUT and the donor, ensuring regular 
  reporting and updating between both organisations.
Top 
Modification History 
Date
Sections
Source
Details
24.01.03
All
Vice-Chancellor
New Policy
Top 
    Chapter A | Chapter B | Chapter C | Chapter D | Chapter E | Chapter F | Chapter G | Chapter H | Chapter I | Appendices | Protocol for MOPP Policy | Recent Updates
    QUT Home | MOPP Home
    CRICOS No. 00213J
    Privacy | Copyright | Accessibility
    Last modified 12-May-2010
    Contact us | Feedback | Disclaimer
