QUT | MOPP | E/11.5 Industry sponsored prize, bursary and scholarship endowments
            QUT&nbsp;Home
          Contact&nbsp;us
          Search
      MOPP Home
      Protocol for MOPP Policy
      Recent Updates
      E/11.5 Industry sponsored prize, bursary and scholarship endowments
Chapters
A - Governance/Organisation
B - Human Resources
C - Learning/Teaching
D - Research/Development
E - Student Administration
F - Information Management
G - Financial Management
H - Physical Facilities
I - International/Community
MOPP Appendices
MOPP Protocol
MOPP Updates
[Print-friendly version]
Contact OfficerDevelopment Officer - Scholarships 
Approval Date24/01/2003
Approval AuthorityVice-Chancellor 
Date of Next Review01/01/2005 
11.5.1 Description 
11.5.2 Procedure 
11.5.3 Donor recognition 
11.5.4 Roles and responsibilities 
Modification History
    THIS POLICY IS CURRENTLY UNDER REVIEW - CONTACT EXECUTIVE OFFICER, DIVISION OF INTERNATIONAL AND DEVELOPMENT, FOR FURTHER DETAILS.
11.5.1 Description 
Where a donor wishes to establish a prize, bursary or scholarship in perpetuity, 
  an endowment is created.
The minimum amount required to establish an endowment is calculated based on 
  the annual value of the prize, bursary or scholarship using an average interest 
  rate of 5%. The annual disbursements are made from the interest earned on the 
  funds.
For example, if a donor would like to provide a $7,500 scholarship each year, 
  the capital required to establish the endowment would be $150,000 (0.05 x $150,000 
  = $7,500).
When an endowment is established, there may be an opportunity to secure matching 
  funding from the University.
Top 
11.5.2 Procedure 
The recipients of prizes, bursaries and scholarships provided from endowment 
  funds are selected in accordance with the selection procedures below.
Prizes and awards
are normally presented to students who demonstrate 
  outstanding academic achievement in a nominated subject or course. Other appropriate 
  criteria may be negotiated, where appropriate.
For 
bursaries
, students are normally selected based on a written application 
  addressing specific selection criteria agreed to by the donor and QUT. No interview 
  takes place. Applications are normally assessed by the relevant faculty representatives 
  and the donor is notified of the bursary recipient.
For 
scholarships
, selection of the recipient usually takes place in 
  Semester 2 for the following academic year. The donor organisation and/or QUT 
  will shortlist applicants based on specific selection criteria (eg GPA, personal 
  achievements, leadership) and both the donor and QUT will interview the shortlisted 
  students to select the scholarship recipient. The selection panel normally comprises 
  one representative from the donor organisation and one representative from QUT.
To establish a prize, bursary or scholarship endowment, QUT requires an ongoing 
  commitment from the donor. Once an endowment is established, the prize, bursary 
  or scholarship will be offered in perpetuity. A Memorandum of Understanding 
  (MOU) defining the criteria of the award is to be developed and signed by a 
  representative of the donor organisation and the relevant QUT faculty.
Faculties may organise their own presentation ceremonies to present endowed 
  prizes, bursaries and scholarships. A representative of the organisation will 
  usually be invited to present the scholarship to the student. Donors may also 
  choose to award the student at their own function.
Top 
11.5.3 Donor recognition 
Donors are recognised when students are presented with their award at faculty 
  ceremonies or scholarship presentations. Details of prizes, bursaries and scholarships 
  received by a student are usually included in their academic record.
The benefits donors receive depend on their level of support. Refer to 
E/11.1.3
E/11.2.3
and 
E/11.3.3
for details of donor recognition.
Top 
11.5.4 Roles and responsibilities 
The Alumni and Development Office is responsible for the soliciting and establishment 
  of prize, bursary and scholarship endowments and approaches to potential donors 
  in conjunction with faculties. The Alumni and Development Office coordinates all solicitation 
  of prize, bursary and scholarship endowments and must be informed and involved 
in the establishment of any new prize, bursary or scholarship endowments.
Prizes, bursaries and scholarships disbursed from endowments are administered 
  by the faculties and the faculties are responsible for coordinating payment 
  to recipients. The Alumni and Development Office is responsible for invoicing and receipting 
donors.
For scholarship endowments, the  Development Officer (Scholarships) will coordinate 
  regular contact and accountability between QUT and the donor, ensuring regular 
  reporting and updating between both organisations.
Top 
Modification History 
Date
Sections
Source
Details
24.01.03
All
Vice-Chancellor
New policy
Top 
    Chapter A | Chapter B | Chapter C | Chapter D | Chapter E | Chapter F | Chapter G | Chapter H | Chapter I | Appendices | Protocol for MOPP Policy | Recent Updates
    QUT Home | MOPP Home
    CRICOS No. 00213J
    Privacy | Copyright | Accessibility
    Last modified 12-May-2010
    Contact us | Feedback | Disclaimer
