QUT | MOPP | F/1.9 Telecommunications policy
            QUT&nbsp;Home
          Contact&nbsp;us
          Search
      MOPP Home
      Protocol for MOPP Policy
      Recent Updates
      F/1.9 Telecommunications policy
Chapters
A - Governance/Organisation
B - Human Resources
C - Learning/Teaching
D - Research/Development
E - Student Administration
F - Information Management
G - Financial Management
H - Physical Facilities
I - International/Community
MOPP Appendices
MOPP Protocol
MOPP Updates
[Print-friendly version]
Contact OfficerExecutive Officer - Division of Technology, Information and Learning Support 
Approval Date27/05/2008 
Approval AuthorityVice-Chancellor 
Date of Next Review01/07/2011 
1.9.1 Purpose of telecommunications services 
1.9.2 Responsibilities 
1.9.3 Availability and use of telecommunications services
1.9.4 Telephones
1.9.5 Facsimile
1.9.6 Voicemail
1.9.7 Mobile telephones
Related Documents 
  Modification History 
1.9.1 Purpose of telecommunications services 
The purpose of the University&rsquo;s telecommunications  services is to allow greater efficiency in teaching, research, community  service and administration at QUT. These services primarily include telephones,  mobile telephones, facsimile, internet and email (see also F/1.5 ).
Top 
1.9.2 Responsibilities 
Director, Information Technology Services
The Director, Information  Technology Services, in consultation with the Deputy Vice-Chancellor  (Technology, Information and Learning Support), is responsible for:
  provision and  support of QUT's telecommunications services;
  review of  telecommunications services available to the University; 
  control of access  to such services. 
Heads of organisational units
Heads of organisational units are responsible  for 
  ongoing review of  costs of telecommunications services within their areas;
  management of  information contained in the QUT Staff Directory.
All staff
All staff members of QUT are  responsible for maintaining up-to-date information in the QUT Staff Directory.
Top 
1.9.3 Availability and use of telecommunications  services 
QUT&rsquo;s Code of Conduct stipulates that all University officers have a  responsibility to ensure that University resources are used only for legitimate  purposes and are not wasted or misused. Telecommunications services are  provided primarily to facilitate official University business and activities.  However, QUT recognises that these services may also be used for incidental  personal purposes. Such incidental use must not:
  interfere with University operation of information technologies; 
  burden the University with incremental costs; 
  interfere with the user's employment or other obligations to the University; 
  infringe any other condition of employment or University policies and procedures. 
Further information is available  in the Acceptable use of information technology resources policy (F/1.11).
Top 
1.9.4 Telephones 
Staff and approved affiliates (eg visiting  fellows, adjunct professors) are provided with telephone services to be used  for University purposes.
Public telephones are located at various  points on each campus.
Internal telephones for use by students are  located in the enquiry areas on each campus to assist student access to  lecturers. A number of internal  telephones are also located in publicly accessible areas to assist access to  nearby secure QUT staff areas.
For telephones capable of accessing lines outside of  QUT, all recurrent costs are borne by the organisational area in which the telephone operates. All telephone calls are monitored for duration and cost,  and costs are recovered from relevant responsibility centres.
Top 
1.9.5 Facsimile  
Facsimile (fax) machines are provided in  organisational areas. All recurrent costs are borne by the organisational area  in which the fax machine operates.
Given that faxes are generally recognised as an  insecure means of communication, consideration should be given to the appropriateness of using faxes to transmit confidential or sensitive  information.Top 
1.9.6 Voicemail 
A voicemail service is available to QUT staff to provide recorded messages to callers when a telephone is unattended, and to allow recording and storage of incoming telephone messages. 
Top 
1.9.7 Mobile telephones
Purchase of mobile telephones for  staff must be authorised and approved by the appropriate officer in accordance with the Schedule of Authorities and Delegations.
All mobile telephone services,  including new connections, new services, disconnections or transfers, are to be connected through the University&rsquo;s preferred supplier. 
TopRelated Documents 
MOPP F/1.1 Provision and use of  information resources and services
MOPP F/1.11 Acceptable use of information technology resources
MOPP F/1.5 Email policy
Information Technology Services website 
Top 
Modification History 
Date
Sections
Source
Details
  15.09.10
  All
  Governance Services
  Policy revised to reflect repeal of Information Facilities Rules
 27.05.08
All
Vice-Chancellor
New policy (replaces former  policies F/7.3 Telephone service and F/7.4 Facsimile operation) 
Top 
    Chapter A | Chapter B | Chapter C | Chapter D | Chapter E | Chapter F | Chapter G | Chapter H | Chapter I | Appendices | Protocol for MOPP Policy | Recent Updates
    QUT Home | MOPP Home
    CRICOS No. 00213J
    Privacy | Copyright | Accessibility
    Last modified 10-Sep-2010
    Contact us | Feedback | Disclaimer
