QUT | MOPP | F/1.1 Provision and use of information resources and services
            QUT&nbsp;Home
          Contact&nbsp;us
          Search
      MOPP Home
      Protocol for MOPP Policy
      Recent Updates
      F/1.1 Provision and use of information resources and services
Chapters
A - Governance/Organisation
B - Human Resources
C - Learning/Teaching
D - Research/Development
E - Student Administration
F - Information Management
G - Financial Management
H - Physical Facilities
I - International/Community
MOPP Appendices
MOPP Protocol
MOPP Updates
[Print-friendly version]
Contact OfficerExecutive Officer - Division of Technology, Information and Learning Support 
Approval Date02/09/2009 
Approval AuthorityVice-Chancellor 
Date of Next Review01/09/2012 
1.1.1 Framework for allocation of information resources and services 
1.1.2 Use of QUT information resources and services 
1.1.3 Responsibilities relating to provision of information resources and services 
1.1.4 Approved defined roles
 1.1.5 Acquisition of information  technology and software licensing agreements
Related Documents 
Modification History 
1.1.1 Framework for allocation of information resources and services 
The integration of information and communications technology into teaching,  research, business support functions and infrastructure is a key goal for the University.  This commitment includes the provision of access to a range of print and  electronic information resources and services provided through the University's  information technology infrastructure and the QUT Library.
The University has a responsibility to ensure that information technology and resources are aligned
    with its business and deliver value to the organisation through the appropriate allocation of resources,
    adequate assessment of security and mitigation of risk. Performance on information management activities
should be measurable.
To appropriately allocate these resources, and address security and other risks, the University has
    established a process by which access to corporate physical and virtual information resources and
  infrastructure is granted.
Details of information resources and services provided to staff and students  of the University by the Division of Technology, Information and Learning  Support are outlined in the  Service Catalogue.
Top 
1.1.2 Use of QUT information resources and services 
With the rapid development of academic and research networks in Australia and internationally, staff
  and students of the University have ever-increasing communications capability. This capability brings
with it certain responsibilities outlined in the Acceptable use of information technology resources (F/1.11). In particular, this policy aims to promote ethical and responsible use of the University's  information technology resources and applies to all staff and students. 
Information systems provided by the University,
  whether within faculties or divisions, may only be used in support of QUT's teaching, research, administration
and service activities.
QUT's commitment to professionalism, ethical practices, equity and social accountability implies a
    duty of care in relation to the use of information resources. Finite resources are applied to information
  facilities, and their use for University purposes must not be diminished by use for other purposes.
    QUT also values its reputation,  including that which is conveyed
    on information networks. Therefore, QUT is committed to procedures which:
monitor the quality of information on computer networks
make QUT users aware of University policy on the use of information resources
lead to action arising from such       monitoring through divisional or faculty channels as appropriate. Misuse by       students is dealt with under the appropriate University Statutes and Rules       (see Appendix       1(b) and Appendix       1(c) ). Misuse by staff is dealt       with through performance management and/or staff misconduct processes,       depending on the nature of the breach in question. 
QUT  routinely logs network activity and may use this information to investigate  faults, security breaches and unlawful activity (see F/1.2.7 ).
Top
1.1.3 Responsibilities relating to provision of information resources and services 
Deputy Vice-Chancellor (Technology, Information and Learning Support)
The Deputy Vice-Chancellor (Technology, Information and Learning Support) is responsible for the provision
  of information resources and services to the University community. The Division of Technology, Information
  and Learning Support provides central support for the academic functions of QUT faculties in these areas, and technological
  support for communication and administration within all areas of the University.
Information Technology Governance Committee
Information Technology Governance Committee
is responsible to the Vice-Chancellor
  for monitoring and reviewing University direction and strategic deployment of information technology
  infrastructure. Full details of the Committee's terms of reference and membership are found in 
F/1.7
Data custodians
Whilst QUT owns the data in the information systems used to support the University's business processes,
  a nominated data custodian has primary responsibility for the management and control of data sourced
  from their business area. Data custodians are senior managers responsible for:
data quality - accuracy, integrity, cleanliness, correctness, completeness, consistency and
    timeliness;
data security - control of access to data sets to known individuals, and monitoring of the
    data's subsequent exposure as it flows through the University systems and records;
data standards - ensuring compliance with relevant laws, government and regulatory standards
    and any policies and standards imposed internally;
data management - definition of the authoritative source of data and of the data to be provided
    from that source, and ensuring that duplication of data is kept to a minimum.
Data custodians are expected to monitor and evaluate business processes to ensure that these are consistent
  with best practice principles for data management, and are responsible for approval of the 'rules' which
  are used to determine user access to information resources and services (though this approval can be
  delegated to another officer in the business area).
Top 
1.1.4 Approved defined roles 
QUT allocates access to information services and resources based on approved defined roles. These
  roles determine the services and resources which a user may access. Any new categories of users
  or roles are approved by the Deputy
Vice-Chancellor (Technology, Information and Learning Support).
A data custodian (or delegate), in determining approved defined roles and consequential access to
  services or resources, must take into account business needs and risks, information security and privacy
  requirements (refer to 
F/1.2
and 
F/6.2
for
further details) and other relevant matters such as technical requirements and constraints.
The following persons are entitled to use a range of information resources and services based on their
approved defined role, provided that they abide by the 
Acceptable use of information technology resourses policy (F/1.11)
, this policy and authentication requirements:
   enrolled students;
  employees of QUT;
  members of QUT Council;
  community partners;
  members of institutes;
  approved other users.
Rights to use the information resources and services of the University are non-transferable, unless
  specifically authorised by the Deputy Vice-Chancellor (Technology, Information and Learning Support).
The University permits members of the public to use physical resources such as the QUT Library, including
  the on-line library catalogue. The University may also permit use of information technology systems
  and facilities by members of the public subject to the provisions of the 
Telecommunications Act 1997
(Cwth) and relevant commercial and licensing agreements.
The University may apply charges for use of information resources and services in accordance with
  its user charging policy (see  
G/8.1
Top 
1.1.5 Acquisition of information  technology and software licensing agreements 
The provision of information resources and services  requires the acquisition of information technology hardware and software and  the development of significant infrastructure. Expenditure of funds on information technology acquisition should be  aligned with QUT's planning processes and priorities, including the Asset  Management Plan, and should be consistent with policies and procedures relating  to information technology and purchasing.
In addition, acquisitions of information technology  and software licences must be considered in the broader context of QUT's  information technology deployment, to determine any significant implications  raised by the acquisition. The Deputy Vice-Chancellor (Technology, Information  and Learning Support) is responsible for the development of protocols to enable  the assessment of any broader implications of an acquisition to be undertaken  by relevant staff of the Division in conjunction with the area proposing the  acquisition. Where necessary, the Deputy Vice-Chancellor (Technology,  Information and Learning Support) may specify that the project to which the  acquisition relates must be added to the Information Technology Project Register,  to address risk and to ensure that the project to which the acquisition relates  is managed appropriately.
Subject to compliance with the above, acquisitions  may be approved by relevant officers up to the officer's expenditure  limit.  For further details refer to Appendix 3 Schedule of Authorities and Delegations .
Top 
Related Documents 
Telecommunications Act 1997 (Cwth) 
MOPP F /1.2 Information  security policy
MOPP F/1.8 Library resources
MOPP F/6.2 Information privacy
MOPP G/8.1 User charging policy
Top 
Modification History 
Date
Sections
Source
Details
  15.09.10
  All
  Governance Services
  Policy revised to reflect repeal of Information Facilities Rules
  02.09.09
  F/1.1.2
  Deputy Vice-Chancellor (Technology, Information  and Learning Support)
  Periodic review - minor editorial changes only
  19.03.08
  F/1.1.2
   Vice-Chancellor
  Revised policy to include  reference to Schedule 1 of Information Facilities Rules as policy applying to all  staff and students, and to indicate that QUT routinely logs network activity (incorporates  former policy B/8.7 Acceptable Use of Information Facilities)
   08.06.07
  F/1.1.5
   Vice-Chancellor
  New policy relating to  acquisition of information technology and software licensing agreements,  consistent with amendment to Schedule of Authorities and Delegations (endorsed  by Vice-Chancellor&rsquo;s Advisory Committee 04.04.07)
07.06.06
All
Vice-Chancellor
Revised policy (removed references to library resources - now in new policy
        F/1.8, amended references to resource provision roles and responsibilities) (endorsed by Information
        Technology Advisory Committee 19.04.06)
07.10.04
F/1.1.3
Secretariat
Editorial (revised committee name - Information Technology Advisory Committee,
        approved by Vice-Chancellor 07.10.04)
08.07.04
F/1.1.3
Secretariat
Editorial (deleted reference to Information Technology Strategic Governance Committee,
        disbanded June 2004, and replaced with reference to new Information Technology and Library Resources
        Committee)
15.01.04
All
Vice-Chancellor
New policy; replaces I/2.1 and I/2.4
Top 
    Chapter A | Chapter B | Chapter C | Chapter D | Chapter E | Chapter F | Chapter G | Chapter H | Chapter I | Appendices | Protocol for MOPP Policy | Recent Updates
    QUT Home | MOPP Home
    CRICOS No. 00213J
    Privacy | Copyright | Accessibility
    Last modified 04-Oct-2010
    Contact us | Feedback | Disclaimer
