QUT | MOPP | F/1.3 QUT ePrints repository for research output
            QUT&nbsp;Home
          Contact&nbsp;us
          Search
      MOPP Home
      Protocol for MOPP Policy
      Recent Updates
      F/1.3 QUT ePrints repository for research output
Chapters
A - Governance/Organisation
B - Human Resources
C - Learning/Teaching
D - Research/Development
E - Student Administration
F - Information Management
G - Financial Management
H - Physical Facilities
I - International/Community
MOPP Appendices
MOPP Protocol
MOPP Updates
[Print-friendly version]
Contact OfficerAssociate Director, Library Services (Information Resources and Research Support) 
Approval Date18/09/2009 
Approval AuthorityUniversity Academic Board 
Date of Next Review01/09/2012 
1.3.1 Background 
1.3.2 Policy 
1.3.3 Roles and responsibilities 
1.3.4 Reporting
1.3.5 Operational guidelines
Related Documents 
Modification History 
1.3.1 Background 
QUT staff  and postgraduate students produce research and scholarly output as a  contribution to their discipline and/or as part of scholarly discourse. A  significant proportion of this is intended for publication for the general  purpose of recognition and impact. The following policy applies to this  process, only where such output is not intended for commercialisation or  individual royalty payment or revenue for the author or QUT. In effect it  applies to the corpus of refereed research literature, conference papers,  selected creative works and other non-refereed output, including research data,  as contributed by QUT to the outside world.
Top 
1.3.2 Policy 
Material  which represents the total publicly available research and scholarly output of  the University is to be located in the QUT ePrints institutional repository, subject to the exclusions noted  below. In this way it contributes to a growing international corpus of refereed  and other research literature available on open access, a process occurring in  universities worldwide.
The  following materials must be included  in QUT ePrints
  refereed  research articles and conference papers (author's accepted manuscript) at the  post-peer review stage
  digital theses submitted by       research higher degree candidates via the Research Students Centre (see F/1.10 Library treatment       of theses).
The following  materials may be included in QUT  ePrints
  refereed  research articles and conference papers (authors' submitted manuscript) with  corrigenda added following peer review if necessary
  books  and book chapters
  un-refereed  research literature, conference contributions, chapters in proceedings (the  accepted draft)
  creative  works with a research component
  descriptions  of research data and datasets.
Materials to  be commercialised, or which contain confidential material, or where the  promulgation would infringe a legal commitment by the University and/or the  author, will not be included in QUT ePrints. Materials will be organised in QUT  ePrints according to the same categories used for the reporting of research to  DIISR (see Office of Research website ).
QUT's  preference is to make materials available at the time of publication. Requests  for embargos of more than twelve months must be referred to the Deputy  Vice-Chancellor (Technology, Information and Learning Support). 
Top 
1.3.3 Roles and responsibilities 
Authors and  researchers are responsible for uploading materials to QUT ePrints. Where  authors or researchers maintain staff profiles or personal web pages, links  should be provided to the article or document which has been submitted to QUT  ePrints.
The QUT  Library is responsible for managing QUT ePrints.
Top 
1.3.4 Reporting 
The  Director, Library Services reports annually, through the Deputy Vice-Chancellor  (Technology, Information and Learning Support), to University Research and  Innovation Committee and the Office of Research on the status of QUT ePrints.
Top 
1.3.5 Operational guidelines 
Guidelines for depositing research outputs into  QUT ePrints are available from the 
QUT
  Library. Guidance on Copyright arrangements and standards for publishers is available from the 
University
Copyright Officer.
Top
Related Documents
MOPP F/1.10 Library treatment of theses
MOPP F/5.1 Copyright policy 
Top 
Modification History 
Date
Sections
Source
Details
  07.10.10
   All
   DVC TILS
  Revised  due to the removal of Australasian Digital Theses (ADT)
   18.09.09
   All
   University Academic Board
  Policy revised and renamed
   24.03.06
   All
   University Academic Board
   Revised policy (endorsed by University Research and Innovation Committee 01.03.06)
26.09.03
All
University Academic Board
New policy (endorsed by University Research and Development Committee) - effective from 01.01.2004
Top 
    Chapter A | Chapter B | Chapter C | Chapter D | Chapter E | Chapter F | Chapter G | Chapter H | Chapter I | Appendices | Protocol for MOPP Policy | Recent Updates
    QUT Home | MOPP Home
    CRICOS No. 00213J
    Privacy | Copyright | Accessibility
    Last modified 07-Oct-2010
    Contact us | Feedback | Disclaimer
