QUT | MOPP | F/1.4 Policy on web pages and web servers
            QUT&nbsp;Home
          Contact&nbsp;us
          Search
      MOPP Home
      Protocol for MOPP Policy
      Recent Updates
      F/1.4 Policy on web pages and web servers
Chapters
A - Governance/Organisation
B - Human Resources
C - Learning/Teaching
D - Research/Development
E - Student Administration
F - Information Management
G - Financial Management
H - Physical Facilities
I - International/Community
MOPP Appendices
MOPP Protocol
MOPP Updates
[Print-friendly version]
Contact OfficerExecutive Officer, Registrar's Office 
Approval Date29/07/2006 
Approval AuthorityVice-Chancellor 
Date of Next Review01/07/2009 
1.4.1 General principles 
1.4.2 Definitions 
1.4.3 Web Governance Framework 
1.4.4 Management of web pages and servers 
1.4.5 Standards for material on web pages and web servers 
1.4.6 Copyright issues associated with web publication 
Related Documents 
Modification History 
1.4.1 General principles 
The web is recognised as an important medium for
learning and teaching and the provision of a flexible delivery medium for 
    QUT courses
administrative interactions between QUT and its students/staff via the 
    QUT Virtual portal
QUT marketing communication via the University's public web site.
All material placed on University web servers reflects on the University, and 
  must identify the University in accordance with QUT's corporate identity 
  standards. Websites used for teaching and learning must also comply with on-line 
  teaching standards for appropriate presentation and management.
Top 
1.4.2 Definitions 
A "web page" is a file which can be displayed within a Web browser. 
  The page may incorporate any combination of text, graphics and other media as 
  appropriate, and may use hypertext links to move between its different parts 
  and other Web pages. Each web page has an address called a Uniform Resource 
  Locator or URL.
The 
QUT home page
is the default web page directly accessible 
  via the top level QUT uniform resource locator 
http://www.qut.edu.au/
A "web server" is a computer that is always connected to the internet. It 
  runs web server software that waits for browsers to request web pages from it. 
  Each web server has a domain name (eg. qut.edu.au) that browsers use to locate 
  the web server.
Top 
1.4.3 Web Governance Framework 
All organisational unit web pages and servers must be governed in accordance
  with the University's 
Web
  Governance Framework
. Compliance with the Framework is the responsibility
of the relevant executive dean of faculty, head of division or institute director.
Top 
1.4.4 Management of web pages and servers 
Web pages
All organisational unit home pages must include a link to the QUT home page. 
  All organisational unit web pages must link to the organisational unit's home 
  page.
All organisational unit home pages, web pages and unit or course home pages 
  used for teaching and learning must
stay within QUT's infrastructure (ie on servers hosted by QUT). Exceptions 
    must be approved in writing by the Registrar
use the qut.edu.au or  qut.com domains. Exceptions must be approved in writing by the Director,  Marketing and Communication
follow corporate identity,  accessibility and other standards as outlined in the QUT Web Manual . Exceptions must be approved in writing by the Registrar &nbsp;in consultation with the Director, Marketing  and Communication
include the University's CRICOS provider number in page footer information 
    as a minimum requirement. The standard usage is "CRICOS No. 00213J" 
    (refer to 
CRICOS guide
in the case of unit or  course home pages used for teaching and learning, follow standards issued by  the Deputy Vice-Chancellor (Technology, Information and Learning Support) for  on-line teaching and learning sites.
Information indicating
the officer responsible for the material published on QUT web pages
contact details for the relevant web master
date of last review
should be recorded as metadata on the relevant web page.
Web servers
University web servers, including the principal University web server, web 
  servers connected to the internet via the University, and web servers having 
  a University internet address, may only be connected to the internet according 
  to formal procedures as authorised from time to time by the Director, Information 
  Technology Services.
The Director, Information Technology Services, may
amend or remove from a web server any material which does not conform with 
    legal requirements, the Acceptable use of information technology resources policy (F/1.11),  
    or which reflects adversely on the University, or is outdated
disconnect from the internet any web server which does not conform to this 
    policy, or reflects adversely on the University
remove or alter any files or material or disconnect any server which weakens 
    network security or attracts so much network or internet traffic as to degrade 
    network performance.
All web servers visible from outside the University must be designed to provide 
  continuous service, and this requires adequate supervision and backup.
Top 
1.4.5 Standards for material on web pages and web servers 
All material placed on University web servers reflects on the University, and 
  the University must be identifiable in accordance with 
Corporate 
  Identity standards
A person placing material on a University web server is responsible for
the accuracy of the material
the spelling, grammar, presentation and appearance of the material
maintenance of the University's professional image
ensuring that the material remains up-to-date by reviewing the material 
    as appropriate and at least once every six months
maintenance of links to ensure as far as possible that inactive or dead 
    links, or links to incomplete material, are not included
ensuring that the material conforms to University policy on the standards 
    for material on University web servers as issued by the Registrar from time to  time.
Material placed on web servers must be related to University functions or activities, 
  or otherwise approved by the Registrar. Information appearing on a University web page which 
  is not related to a University function or activity must be clearly differentiated 
  from official information and must state the person responsible for the information.
Only one version of any official University document or policy should exist 
  on a University web page or web server. Any other references should be by a 
  link to the original document, rather than by reproducing a copy, so that a 
  single, definitive version is accessed.
Paid advertising by external organisations (ie an external advertiser's 
  message or logo) on University web pages is not permitted. However, where a 
  broader sponsorship arrangement exists with an external organisation, this may 
  be acknowledged by QUT in text (no external logos) on the appropriate University 
  web page/s. In these situations, the sponsor's name in the text may provide 
  a hyperlink to the organisation's website or to more information about 
  QUT's relationship with the organisation. Any exceptions to this policy 
  must be approved by the Director, Marketing and Communication.
Top 
1.4.6 Copyright issues associated with web publication 
Material in which QUT does not own the copyright must be made available via 
  QUT web pages and servers only in accordance with relevant Australian Government legislation 
  and QUT's copyright policy (see 
F/5.1 ). 
  Specifically, this means that it is provided through one of the following channels
material available under statutory licence and identified as such
material available by direct contract (licence) with the copyright owner 
    through the QUT Library
material available by specific and documented permission of the copyright 
    owner.
The key determinants of the appropriate channel are the purpose for which the 
  material is made available, the type of material, and the restrictions on access 
  to the site. For further guidance, refer to the 
QUT 
  Copyright Guide
Take down
procedures for material which infringes copyright
To adequately address copyright infringement risks in the context of content 
  on University web pages and web servers, the Director, Information Technology 
  Services, in conjunction with the Copyright Officer, has responsibility for 
  implementing appropriate take down procedures for infringing material and for 
  responding to a take down notice or complaint by copyright owners or others 
  about infringing material.
Top 
Related Documents 
MOPP F/2.1 QUT Corporate identity policy
MOPP F/5.1 Copyright policy
MOPP Appendix 1(c) - Information Facilities Rules
QUT Web Manual
QUT Web Governance Framework
Top 
Modification History 
Date
Sections
Source
Details
  15.09.10
  All
  Governance Services
  Policy revised to reflect repeal of Information Facilities Rules
   06.05.06
  F/1.4.4, F/1.4.5
  Deputy Vice-Chancellor  (Technology, Information and Learning Support)
  Editorial change &ndash;  responsibility moved to Registrar
29.07.06
All
Vice-Chancellor
Revised to include requirement to comply with Web Governance Framework
    (endorsed Vice-Chancellor's Advisory Committee 10.08.05)
15.01.04
All
Vice-Chancellor
New policy (incorporates information on web pages and web servers from 
      former Information Technology Rules)
Top 
    Chapter A | Chapter B | Chapter C | Chapter D | Chapter E | Chapter F | Chapter G | Chapter H | Chapter I | Appendices | Protocol for MOPP Policy | Recent Updates
    QUT Home | MOPP Home
    CRICOS No. 00213J
    Privacy | Copyright | Accessibility
    Last modified 10-Sep-2010
    Contact us | Feedback | Disclaimer
