QUT | MOPP | F/1.12 Borrowing of library resources
            QUT&nbsp;Home
          Contact&nbsp;us
          Search
      MOPP Home
      Protocol for MOPP Policy
      Recent Updates
      F/1.12 Borrowing of library resources
Chapters
A - Governance/Organisation
B - Human Resources
C - Learning/Teaching
D - Research/Development
E - Student Administration
F - Information Management
G - Financial Management
H - Physical Facilities
I - International/Community
MOPP Appendices
MOPP Protocol
MOPP Updates
[Print-friendly version]
Contact OfficerDirector, Library Services 
Approval Date30/08/2010 
Approval AuthorityVice-Chancellor 
Date of Next Review01/09/2013 
1.12.1  Policy principles 
1.12.2 Application 
1.12.3 Definitions 
1.12.4 Roles and responsibilities
1.12.5 Library borrowing conditions
1.12.6 Failure to comply
1.12.7 Penalties for failure to comply
1.12.8 Appeals against imposition of penalties
Related Documents 
Modification History 
1.12.1 Policy principles 
QUT provides  library resources to support its teaching, learning and research functions and  activities. The University encourages the prompt return of library resources by  borrowers and recognises that the late return or non-return of library  resources may have a significant negative effect on its functions and  activities, including
  disrupting  the learning opportunities of students
  impairing  the ability of students to participate fully in the University's learning  environment
  impacting  on the University's ability to provide a full range of library resources.
This policy sets out the University's requirements  for the borrowing of library resources. 
Top 
1.12.2 Application 
This policy applies to any member of the University community who is  permitted to borrow QUT's library resources including
  Enrolled  students
  Staff,  whether full-time, part-time, ongoing, fixed-term, casual or sessional 
  Individuals  associated with QUT including
      individuals  who have been granted access to QUT  property, services or infrastructure (for example, temporary staff engaged by  QUT through an employment agency)
      consultants  and independent contractors undertaking services for QUT
      members  of QUT Council or other University committees whether they hold office by  election, nomination or appointment
      visiting  and adjunct academics, or other academic or research collaborators 
      volunteers  who contribute to or act on behalf of the University
      reciprocal  borrowers registered under the University Libraries Australia (ULA) scheme
      associate  borrowers including QUT Alumni.
Top
1.12.3 Definitions 
Borrower means any member of the University community listed in 1.12.2 borrowing QUT's  library resources.
Library Borrowing Conditions means any conditions designated by  the Vice-Chancellor which govern the borrowing of QUT's library and audiovisual  resources, including
  the  procedures for borrowing items
  the  period of time for which items may be borrowed
  the  procedures for renewal of loans
  any  restrictions on borrowing certain items
  the  procedures for recall of an item which is required by another student
  the  procedures relating to a borrower's accumulation of penalty points for overdue  resources 
  the  procedures for dealing with non-return or damage of items
  the  procedures for the imposition of the penalties listed in 1.12.7
  the  procedures for the appeal against the imposition of the penalties listed in  1.12.7.
Library resources means any library resource, service  or facility provided by the University to assist or support learning and  teaching, research, administrative and business activities, and includes
  material  such as monographs, periodicals, CDs or DVDs
  any  audiovisual or IT equipment available  for borrowing from either the QUT Library or AV Services such as cameras and  laptops
  other  material available for borrowing such as kits, charts, maps and models.
Highest level overdue means a borrower has been issued a  second and final overdue notice which will result in automatic suspension of library borrowing privileges.
Library review officer means a member of the University  staff appointed in writing by the Deputy Vice-Chancellor (Technology,  Information and Learning Support) to deal with appeals under this policy in  accordance with 1.12.8.
Compliance officer means a member of the University  staff appointed in writing by the Deputy Vice-Chancellor (Technology, Information  and Learning Support) to deal with failure to comply with the Library Borrowing  Conditions.
Top 
1.12.4 Roles and responsibilities 
Borrowers of library resources 
  All borrowers  of the University's library resources have a responsibility to borrow those  resources in accordance with the requirements of the Library Borrowing Conditions.
Vice-Chancellor
  The  Vice-Chancellor is responsible for designating the Library Borrowing  Conditions.
Deputy  Vice-Chancellor (Technology, Information and Learning Support) 
The Deputy Vice-Chancellor (Technology, Information and Learning Support)  is responsible for 
  promoting  all borrowers' awareness of this policy
  appointing  the library review officer and compliance officers. 
Library  review officer
The library review officer is responsible for making decisions on appeals  against the imposition of a penalty in accordance with section 1.12.8.
Compliance  officer
The compliance officer is responsible for
  taking reasonable steps to make borrowers aware of  the University's Library Borrowing Conditions
  imposing penalties on borrowers for failure to  comply with this policy in accordance with section 1.12.7 (a) and (b)
  making recommendation on imposition of academic  sanctions on borrowers who continue to fail to comply with this policy in  accordance with section 1.12.7 (c)
  waiving penalties where borrowers provide reasonable  explanation of exceptional circumstances
  removal of Library sanctions once all conditions of  the Library Borrowing Conditions have been met.
Top 
1.12.5 Library borrowing conditions 
The  Vice-Chancellor designates Library Borrowing Conditions. A borrower must comply  with these conditions. By borrowing library resources, a borrower is taken to  have accepted and agreed to comply with the Library Borrowing Conditions.
Top 
1.12.6 Failure to comply
A compliance officer  may impose or recommend the imposition of any of the penalties listed in  1.12.7 on a borrower who fails to comply with the Library Borrowing Conditions.
Top 
1.12.7 Penalties for failure to comply
(a) Suspension of library borrowing privileges for failure to  comply
A borrower's  library borrowing privileges will be automatically suspended if the borrower  has reached the highest level overdue or returned damaged resources, has outstanding  library fees, has exceeded the penalty point limit or has otherwise failed to  comply with the Library Borrowing Conditions. The borrower's library borrowing  privileges will only be reinstated when the borrower complies with the Library Borrowing Conditions.
(b) Imposition of fees
A compliance officer may impose on a borrower a  reinstatement of borrowing fee or a replacement fee for an item that has not  been returned or has been damaged. These fees will be specified in the Library  Borrowing Conditions.
(c) Continued failure to comply 
Where a borrower  continues to fail to comply with the Library Borrowing Conditions after their  library borrowing privileges have been suspended, and does not return the  library resource or pay any imposed fee, the University, on recommendation of  the compliance officer, may impose an academic sanction resulting in
  suspension  of access to other information facilities
  withholding  a student's results, an academic transcript or an award certificate.
Top  
1.12.8 Appeals against imposition of penalties
The  Vice-Chancellor will specify procedures for appealing against the imposition of  penalties in the Library Borrowing Conditions. The library review officer will  make decisions on these appeals. All  appeals should be submitted and finalised within the calendar year.
Top 
Related Documents 
MOPP B/8.1  Code of Conduct
  MOPP B/8.5  Disciplinary action for misconduct and serious misconduct - senior staff
  MOPP E/2.1  Student Code of Conduct
  MOPP E/8.1  Management of student discipline
MOPP F/1.1  Provision and use of information resources and services
Library Borrowing Conditions
Top 
Modification History 
Date
Sections
Source
Details
  30.08.10
  All
  Vice-Chancellor
  New policy
Top 
    Chapter A | Chapter B | Chapter C | Chapter D | Chapter E | Chapter F | Chapter G | Chapter H | Chapter I | Appendices | Protocol for MOPP Policy | Recent Updates
    QUT Home | MOPP Home
    CRICOS No. 00213J
    Privacy | Copyright | Accessibility
    Last modified 31-Aug-2010
    Contact us | Feedback | Disclaimer
