QUT | MOPP | F/1.8 Library resources
            QUT&nbsp;Home
          Contact&nbsp;us
          Search
      MOPP Home
      Protocol for MOPP Policy
      Recent Updates
      F/1.8 Library resources
Chapters
A - Governance/Organisation
B - Human Resources
C - Learning/Teaching
D - Research/Development
E - Student Administration
F - Information Management
G - Financial Management
H - Physical Facilities
I - International/Community
MOPP Appendices
MOPP Protocol
MOPP Updates
[Print-friendly version]
Contact OfficerAssociate Director, Library Services (Information Resources and Research Support Services) 
Approval Date16/09/2009 
Approval AuthorityVice-Chancellor 
Date of Next Review01/09/2012 
1.8.1 Library resources and services 
1.8.2 School-based libraries 
Related Documents 
Modification History 
1.8.1 Library resources and services 
The  University maintains the QUT Library in support of its overall vision, goals and organisational values (A/2.1). The QUT Library  provides students and researchers with collections of print and electronic information resources to meet their information needs. These resources comprise electronic  journals,  ebooks, databases, print books, print journals, audiovisual materials, computer software and other media. Web based, electronic  full text  resources are provided wherever possible to maximise access to resources. The QUT Library website, catalogue and databases services are the main access points to the collections of print and electronic resources.
  Each branch of the QUT Library holds its own physical collections, reflecting the courses taught and the
  research interests of academic staff on the particular campus. Specific locations may be negotiated
  for library materials outside these libraries. Such collections may include, but are not limited
  to: 
the placement of material for access by external students in areas remote from Brisbane 
requirements of the Law Faculty for special collections for staff consultation 
possible future cooperative arrangements with other academic and research libraries in the region. 
Borrowing conditions
The University has adopted library borrowing conditions in accordance with Borrowing of library resources (F/1.12).
Access to electronic library  resources
QUT  students and staff may access electronic library resources from both on and off campus. Members of the general public may access selected electronic resources from computers located within the QUT  Library buildings only. Use of electronic library resources is subject to the terms and conditions of  publishers&rsquo; licence agreements and copyright. QUT Alumni members  may access specific electronic library resources from off campus subject to licence agreements and additional payments where appropriate. 
Top1.8.2 School-based libraries 
The  University does not support or maintain school-based libraries. Materials will not normally be purchased so as to constitute 'library collections' in any location other than the QUT Library. 
 Schools or other organisational units may acquire materials which normally would be within the scope of the QUT Library's collection development policy in the following circumstances:  
  Members of staff may require 'working collections' (eg computer manuals, laboratory items, handbooks ) which are purchased from University funds. 
  Faculties, schools and institutes  may purchase (or provide  additional funding to the Library to purchase) additional or specialty resources, but wherever possible such material  should be included in the QUT Library collection for cataloguing and storage in appropriate conditions, thus allowing wider and more ready access than if placed in an office or less accessible  location. 
  Schools may acquire materials intended for frequent  consultation for a given period of utility (eg for 12 months). After this period, the materials may be offered for inclusion in the QUT Library collections.  Materials may be accepted by the Library in accordance with the Library's  Collection Development Manual guidelines.
Where  materials are purchased with University funds (eg where academic staff attend conferences and acquire associated publications), such items are not transferable and may not be considered the private property of the staff member involved. 
TopRelated Documents 
MOPP  F/1.1 Provision and use of information resources and services
MOPP  F/1.3 QUT   ePrints repository  for research output
MOPP F/1.11 Acceptable use of information technology resources
MOPP  G/8.1 User charging policy
QUT Library Collection Development Manual
TopModification History 
Date
Sections
Source
Details
  15.09.10
  All
  Governance Services
  Policy revised to reflect repeal of Information Facilities Rules
   16.09.09 
   All 
   Vice-Chancellor 
  Periodic review - policy revised
07.06.06
All
Vice-Chancellor
New policy (replaces policy statement on library resources previously included
   in F/1.1)
Top 
    Chapter A | Chapter B | Chapter C | Chapter D | Chapter E | Chapter F | Chapter G | Chapter H | Chapter I | Appendices | Protocol for MOPP Policy | Recent Updates
    QUT Home | MOPP Home
    CRICOS No. 00213J
    Privacy | Copyright | Accessibility
    Last modified 15-Sep-2010
    Contact us | Feedback | Disclaimer
