QUT | MOPP | F/1.10 Library treatment of theses
            QUT&nbsp;Home
          Contact&nbsp;us
          Search
      MOPP Home
      Protocol for MOPP Policy
      Recent Updates
      F/1.10 Library treatment of theses
Chapters
A - Governance/Organisation
B - Human Resources
C - Learning/Teaching
D - Research/Development
E - Student Administration
F - Information Management
G - Financial Management
H - Physical Facilities
I - International/Community
MOPP Appendices
MOPP Protocol
MOPP Updates
[Print-friendly version]
Contact OfficerAssociate Director, Library Services (Information Resources and Research Support) 
Approval Date18/09/2009 
Approval AuthorityUniversity Academic Board 
Date of Next Review01/09/2012 
1.10.1 Policy statement 
1.10.2 Application 
1.10.3 Definitions 
1.10.4 Roles and responsibilities 
1.10.5 Cataloguing and access 
1.10.6 Copyright matters
Related Documents 
Modification History
1.10.1 Policy statement 
QUT research higher degree theses are required to be made  publicly available to researchers and the general public through the QUT  Library and QUT ePrints. On conclusion of the thesis examination process, the research higher degree  candidate is required to submit their final thesis to the Research  Students Centre for forwarding to the QUT Library.
Top 
1.10.2 Application 
This policy applies to theses submitted by research higher degree candidates for the awards of Doctor of Philosophy (PhD), Professional  Doctorate by Research, and Masters by Research.
Top 
1.10.3 Definitions 
A thesis is the  substantive work submitted for examination for the award of a higher degree by  research.
Top 
1.10.4 Roles and responsibilities 
The QUT Library is responsible for cataloguing and making  accessible both the print and digital versions of research higher degree  theses, through the QUT Library and QUT ePrints
The Research Students Centre is responsible for ensuring  that
  research higher degree  candidates submit their thesis (in print and digital format) on completion of  their studies, in accordance with the course regulations and the Requirements  for Presentation of Theses
  research higher degree theses  (in print and digital format), together with documentation relating to any  approved embargoes, restrictions or copyright permissions, are forwarded to the  QUT Library for cataloguing and processing.
Research higher degree candidates are responsible for  ensuring that relevant copyright permissions and requests for embargo are  provided at the time of submitting their thesis to the Research Students  Centre.
Top 
1.10.5 Cataloguing and access 
The QUT Library catalogues and manages access to theses  which are to be provided by candidates in the following formats
  One  bound print copy &ndash; for inclusion in the QUT Library collection
  A  digital copy &ndash; for inclusion in QUT ePrints.
Theses are also catalogued onto the  national database, Libraries Australia and indexed on Australian  Research Online. The Library does not receive,  catalogue, or archive physical items such as visual art works, sculptures, and  primary materials submitted with a thesis. For some theses by creative works,  it may only be possible to provide the exegesis.
Theses that are not under embargo or other restriction are  placed in closed access in the QUT Library and are available on request for use  within the Library.&nbsp; Theses are not normally available for loan.
Restrictions
  When submitting their final thesis, a research higher degree   candidate, in consultation with their supervisor, may request that the  thesis be embargoed. All embargos are subject to approval of the Dean of  Research and Research Training. If an embargo is approved, the QUT Library will  restrict all access to both the print and digital versions of the thesis until  the restricted period (normally for up to two years) has expired.
Theses by creative works, such as a novel intended for  publication, may be requested for embargo. 
Top 
1.10.6 Copyright matters 
Copyright of a thesis is vested in the candidate. Copyright  materials included in theses can only be reproduced in the digital thesis in QUT ePrints with proof of written permission from the  copyright holder. Research higher degree candidates must ensure that  appropriate approvals are obtained prior to submission of their thesis.  Copyright material for which permission from the copyright holder has not been  obtained must be removed from the digital version of a thesis by the research higher  degree candidate, before it is submitted to the Research Students  Centre for forwarding to the QUT Library.
Copying of theses may be undertaken by or on behalf of any  person entitled to use the QUT Library, subject to the provisions of the Copyright Act 1968 (Cth). Top
Related Documents
Australian  Research Online
MOPP  C/3.2 Award classifications
MOPP  D/3.1 Intellectual property policy
MOPP  F/1.3 E-print repository for research output at QUT
MOPP  Appendix 9 QUT Doctor of Philosophy Regulations
Research  Students Centre website 
Requirements  for presenting theses
Top 
Modification History 
Date
Sections
Source
Details
  07.10.10
   All
   DVC TILS
  Revised due to the removal of Australasian Digital Theses (ADT)
  18.09.09
   All
   University Academic Board
  Policy revised and renamed
  14.11.08
   All
   University Academic Board
  Policy renumbered to F/1.10 (formerly C/10.3)
Top 
    Chapter A | Chapter B | Chapter C | Chapter D | Chapter E | Chapter F | Chapter G | Chapter H | Chapter I | Appendices | Protocol for MOPP Policy | Recent Updates
    QUT Home | MOPP Home
    CRICOS No. 00213J
    Privacy | Copyright | Accessibility
    Last modified 07-Oct-2010
    Contact us | Feedback | Disclaimer
