QUT | MOPP | F/2.3 Language and style in QUT communications
            QUT&nbsp;Home
          Contact&nbsp;us
          Search
      MOPP Home
      Protocol for MOPP Policy
      Recent Updates
      F/2.3 Language and style in QUT communications
Chapters
A - Governance/Organisation
B - Human Resources
C - Learning/Teaching
D - Research/Development
E - Student Administration
F - Information Management
G - Financial Management
H - Physical Facilities
I - International/Community
MOPP Appendices
MOPP Protocol
MOPP Updates
[Print-friendly version]
Contact OfficerDirector, Marketing and Communication 
Approval Date21/12/2006 
Approval AuthorityVice-Chancellor 
Date of Next Review01/12/2009 
2.3.1 Corporate identity 
2.3.2 Resources 
2.3.3 Stylistic conventions to be followed 
2.3.4 Abbreviation of qualifications
2.3.5 Professorial titles
2.3.6 References
2.3.7 Typefaces
2.3.8 Plain English style
2.3.9 Official QUT addresses
Related Documents
  Modification History 
Top 
2.3.1  Corporate identity 
  One aim of QUT's corporate identity program is  to project QUT as a professional, reliable and contemporary organisation. The written communications produced by QUT  staff, whether correspondence written to an individual or organisation, or  matter written for use in published resources, reflect on the reputation of QUT. Staff are expected to communicate in an  effective and professional manner. The  standards described below apply principally to written communications developed  for administrative and other information purposes (in regard to academic  writing, refer to F/2.3.6 below). 
  These standards are designed to assist staff  who are preparing written QUT communications, in order to ensure consistency of  language and style, and ease of use and comprehension of the written  communication on the part of the user. The Corporate  Identity Manual should also be consulted, particularly in regard to  visual presentation requirements and formats. 
Top 
2.3.2 Resources  
The following resources should be used  to resolve common language or stylistic issues: 
  The Macquarie  Dictionary - Australian English spelling is to be used (eg enrol not enroll), and other  standard spelling published in this text should be followed (eg program not  programme, summarise not summarize, cooperate not co-operate);
  Style manual for  authors, editors and printers (formerly published by Australian Government  Printing Service, revised by Snooks and Co for use by authors, designers,  editors, screen-based publishers) 6th or later editions, John Wiley and Sons. 
Top 
2.3.3 Stylistic conventions to be followed  
For ease of  reference, some common stylistic conventions are described below. However, refer to the above resources or  other references on modern English usage for more detailed information on the  conventions described here.
(a) Initials and abbreviations: To reflect modern practice, QUT omits full  stops in abbreviations and initials. To  aid readability, only very common terms should be abbreviated without first  specifying the term in full and identifying the abbreviation to be used in the  remainder of the written document. Care  should be taken to ensure abbreviations are used only when there is certainty  that the target audience will be familiar with the abbreviated term. The word 'and' is always spelt out in full. 
For abbreviations of  qualifications, universities or professorial titles, refer to F/2.3.4 and F/2.3.5  below.
(b) Capitalisation: Capitals are used for specific and proper  names (of persons, institutions, place names) to distinguish them from general  or common names (eg masters degrees, but Master of Applied Science). Use  capitals for 
  books and journals (first word of reference) (put in italics, or underline in accordance with Style Manual conventions); 
  specific/proper names which have a separate meaning without capitals, eg an Act or a Bill (of Parliament), the Constitution, a Proclamation, the States (of Australia),  the Government (Federal or State), but federal and state laws, state unions, federal bodies, parliamentary procedure etc;
  Queensland University of Technology, the University, University procedures when referring to procedures at QUT, but university procedures when referring to procedures of universities in general. 
(c) Numbers and dates: Spell out numbers less than 10. Numbers greater than nine are written  numerically except when they commence a sentence. However, use numerals for cross-referencing (eg see section E/1.12 on student affairs; Statute No. 8 deals with this matter).  For dates, use the style 26 February  1991 and avoid abbreviation of dates.
(d)  Plurals: In compound nouns, the principal noun takes the plural,  eg executive deans of faculty, heads of section, Directors-General.
(e) Punctuation: Punctuation  is used to aid readability and enhance meaning: 
  Full stops should  be used rather than colons after an introductory statement which is a complete  sentence. Use a colon to introduce a listing (always preceded by 'following' or  'as follows'). Don't use a dash (-) in place of a colon and never use both  (:-).
  Use no more commas than are needed for clarity. Commas can  be used before a conjunction in a list of three or more to avoid confusion. 
  Use single quotation marks to enclose direct quotations.
  Use a semicolon to separate clauses or phrases already separated by commas.
  Full stops are omitted:
      after abbreviations, eg Hon, Esq, BAppSc, GradDipBusAdmin 
      after contractions, eg Dr, Mr, dept, Qld, 3rd, extn 
      in Latin abbreviations, eg ie, etc, eg 
      in strings of initials representing organisations, eg ABT,  QAASCAE, QCA 
      in abbreviations of states or countries, eg USA, UK, NSW, WA,  SA, Qld, Tas, NT, Vic 
      after symbols of units of measure, eg 20 kg, 30 mm 
      for time eg 9am, 10pm. 
  Use hyphenation  only to avoid ambiguity. Hyphens should be used:
      in compound adjectives, eg decision-making process, fee-paying students, above-quota  enrolment, limited-term appointment 
      in compound designations, eg Director-General, Auditor-General, Chair-elect 
      in compounds with well, ill, semi, and non when they precede the noun they qualify, eg  well-qualified, ill-experienced, semi-skilled, non-award 
      to avoid awkward  juxtaposition of the same letter, eg re-enrol, re-examination, part-time (and  because of this full-time). 
Top 
2.3.4 Abbreviation of qualifications
  In abbreviating titles and qualifications, QUT  follows a format similar to that recommended by the Association of Commonwealth  Universities. This format should be used when listing staff qualifications and  titles. Notes on the abbreviation of qualifications and the institution from  which the qualification was obtained are available from the Student Services  website.
For degrees, omit full stops and spaces, eg BBus, PhD GradDipHealthSc. Standard  abbreviations for QUT award titles are available from the Learning and Teaching Unit website.
Top 
2.3.5 Professorial titles
The following guidelines have been adopted for usage of the titles of professor, associate professor and chair.
  Professorial titles may be abbreviated as Prof or Assoc Prof (no punctuation). 
  In conversation, professors and associate professors are referred to as Professor. 
  When writing to a professor, the person should be referred to as Professor throughout. When writing to an associate professor the person should be referred to initially as Associate Professor (eg in the address block) and thereafter as Professor (eg Dear Professor). 
  Written communications from professors and associate professors have the awarded title in the position identification block below the signature. 
  Business cards may show the  title professor, provided the full correct title also appears (eg Prof Joe Jackson, Associate Professor in Music). 
  The term 'chair' should only be   used when the position is established as such by the University and when  the position is wholly funded from outside sources (see B/3.3). 
Top 
2.3.6 References
  The Harvard System is in common use for  scholarly and scientific works, though other conventions in a particular  discipline may govern style, formats and referencing. &nbsp;Staff writing scholarly and scientific works  are expected to know and follow any discipline-specific conventions.
Top 
2.3.7 Typefaces
 Helvetica is the University's standard  typeface (for further details refer to the Corporate Identity  Manual). Long documents in hard copy form are often in more readable  (script) faces such as Times Roman. Sans serif fonts such as Arial are  recommended for documents to be published and read on a computer. 
Use italics (or underline) for names of books,  newspapers, periodicals, forms and the citation of Acts and other legal  documents. Use italics for words of foreign origin unless they are regarded as  having been anglicised.
Top 
2.3.8 Plain English style
  The use of a plain English writing style aids  readability. The use of short sentences  (15 words or less) in short paragraphs (three sentences) is recommended. Other  aspects of plain English drafting include:
  Use plain English as much as possible. It's stronger and more direct. 
      Not The main function of University Academic Board is to facilitate University-wide academic debate. 
  But University Academic Board facilitates University-wide academic debate. 
  Write in the present tense wherever possible. 
      Not The academic organisation of the University shall be based on identifiable areas of mutual interest. 
      But The academic organisation of the University is based on identifiable areas of mutual interest. 
  Adopt a non-threatening, user friendly and accessible tone. 
      Not A member of staff or student shall not be permitted to park a vehicle within the grounds of the University unless such person has previously made application for a parking permit and this permit has been granted. 
  But Staff and students are not allowed to park within QUT grounds without a parking permit. 
  Avoid sexist language. Use of second person or plurals overcomes most problems. Information on inclusive language and presentation is available from the Equity Services website.
  When referring to more than one organisational unit, classification, etc, arrange in descending order of rank, eg 
    Faculty / school 
    Professor / associate professor / senior lecturer / lecturer 
Top 
2.3.9 Official QUT addresses
  The official address  for each QUT campus to be used in correspondence is as follows:
    Campus 
    Address
    Mailing Address and contacts
    Gardens Point
    2 George Street 
Brisbane Qld    4001
    GPO Box 2434, 
Brisbane Qld 4001
Telephone: 61 7 3138 2111
Email: qutinformation@qut.edu.au      
    Kelvin Grove
    Victoria Park Road 
      Kelvin Grove Qld 4059
    Caboolture
    Manley &amp; Tallon Streets
      Caboolture Qld 4510
    PO Box 1376, 
Caboolture Qld 4510
Telephone: 61 7 5316 7400
Fax: 61 7 5316 7421
Email: caboolture@qut.edu.au
Where it is  necessary to refer in correspondence to a general telephone enquiry number, the  number for all campuses is 07 3138 2000.
Top 
  Related Documents
  MOPP F/2.1 QUT Corporate identity
  Corporate Identity Manual
Top 
Modification  History 
    Date  
    Sections  
    Source  
    Details  
    11.02.11
    All
    Governance Services
    Revised terms of reference due to name change from Office of Teaching Quality to Learning and Teaching Unit
    21.12.06
    All
    Vice-Chancellor
    New    policy (replaces former F/6.1 Language and style guidelines and F/7.1    Official addresses; Appendix 55 deleted - information on abbreviation of    qualifications and names of universities relocated to Student Services    website)
Top 
    Chapter A | Chapter B | Chapter C | Chapter D | Chapter E | Chapter F | Chapter G | Chapter H | Chapter I | Appendices | Protocol for MOPP Policy | Recent Updates
    QUT Home | MOPP Home
    CRICOS No. 00213J
    Privacy | Copyright | Accessibility
    Last modified 10-Feb-2011
    Contact us | Feedback | Disclaimer
