QUT | MOPP | F/3.5 Promotional activities, publications and merchandising
            QUT&nbsp;Home
          Contact&nbsp;us
          Search
      MOPP Home
      Protocol for MOPP Policy
      Recent Updates
      F/3.5 Promotional activities, publications and merchandising
Chapters
A - Governance/Organisation
B - Human Resources
C - Learning/Teaching
D - Research/Development
E - Student Administration
F - Information Management
G - Financial Management
H - Physical Facilities
I - International/Community
MOPP Appendices
MOPP Protocol
MOPP Updates
[Print-friendly version]
Contact OfficerDirector, Marketing and Communication 
Approval Date02/02/2009 
Approval AuthorityVice-Chancellor 
Date of Next Review01/01/2012 
3.5.1 Promotional material and websites 
3.5.2 Content management on external websites 
3.5.3 Authority to engage external studios, printers and web programmers 
3.5.4 Corporate events and functions 
3.5.5 Promotional items, merchandise and apparel 
Related Documents 
Modification History 
3.5.1 Promotional material and websites 
The Marketing and Communication Department coordinates production of all QUT promotional material
and websites.
In order to portray a strong corporate brand and a high degree of professionalism, the following objectives
  are provided as a guide to the development of quality promotional material by QUT responsibility centres
  and the University as a whole:
to make the best use of promotional dollars through accurately targeted, cost-effective promotion
to maximise use of the University's buying power and in-house facilities, and to take advantage
    of standard formats
to ensure a strong corporate image is maintained
to achieve high editorial standards in promotional material.
To achieve these objectives responsibility centres should undertake a market appraisal prior to production
  of promotional material such as:
advertising
publications
personal representation (visits to sponsors, industry, government, schools etc)
video / CD productions
web sites
special events (displays, functions).
The following criteria should be addressed in the market appraisal:
objective (fundraising, attracting students, attracting research grants etc)
target audience
quality for purpose (appropriateness of quality of material for the specific market)
strategy (mix of media, publications, advertising etc)
size of market (print run, number of visits etc)
whether QUT material of similar content/message already exists (whether there will be duplication
    of message strategy and whether this duplication is necessary)
proposed distribution methods
resources required (budget, human resources, physical resources)
whether the proposal extends the University's corporate promotional strategy
whether publications for this promotion form part of a school, faculty or University 'family' of
    publications and whether an existing style sheet could be used.
Faculty-initiated publications and websites should be included in the approved annual faculty marketing
  communication plan (see 
F/3.1
). Proposals for publications and websites not included in the annual
  plan must be approved by the Marketing and Communication Director. Guidelines for maximising the effectiveness
  of printed promotional materials and websites are available online from the 
Marketing
  and Communication website
All proposals to produce printed publications and websites must be documented in a written brief approved
  by the Marketing and Communication Director. Where there is a series of publications, or multiple versions
  completed to a template, only the first instance must be approved.
Top 
3.5.2 Content management on external websites 
Where areas of QUT supply information for placement on external websites, this arrangement should
  be registered with the Manager, Web Development to enable content management over time.
Top 
3.5.3 Authority to engage external studios, printers and web programmers 
All printing projects should be managed by the  Marketing and Communication
  Department, which will engage external print and design suppliers as needed. No other area of the University
  may engage directly with external design studios or printers without prior approval of the Marketing
and Communication Director.
Promotional websites are normally produced by the  Marketing and Communication
  Department. No other area of the University may engage directly with external suppliers of web design
  or programming services without prior approval of the Marketing and Communication Director.
Top 
3.5.4 Corporate events and functions 
Corporate events and functions hosted by any unit of QUT are those which involve representation at
  the highest level (eg Council, Vice-Chancellor) with dignitaries and other community members. They
  include such events as graduation and orientation ceremonies, building openings, ministerial and official
  visits, business functions, and centre launches.
The function format is approved by the Vice-Chancellor. Where a function follows a standard format
  or is professionally stage-managed, the Vice-Chancellor may provide an ongoing approval.
Planning for events and functions is undertaken by the host unit with advice from the Marketing and
  Communication Department. The host unit is responsible for obtaining approval for the function and
  for the full implementation of the function. The Marketing and Communication Department can assist
  in pre-promotion and media coverage of corporate events.
Top 
3.5.5 Promotional items, merchandise and apparel 
The Marketing and Communication Director approves all proposals to produce QUT-branded items for gift
  or sale to staff, students or external stakeholders to ensure that high standards for quality and suitability
  are maintained.
This policy includes hats, shirts or other apparel items produced for special events or for distribution
  to staff or students. Guidelines for official uniforms and signage are included in the QUT 
Corporate
  Identity Manual
Final artwork for promotional items must be checked for compliance with corporate identity standards
  and approved by the Marketing and Communication Director. Where possible, a finished sample of the
  item should be supplied for inspection prior to full production.
Top 
Related Documents 
MOPP F/1.4 Policy on web pages and web servers
MOPP F/3.3 Advertising policy
QUT Web Governance Framework
Top 
Modification History 
Date
Sections
Source
Details
   02.02.09
   All
   Vice-Chancellor
   Periodic review - minor revisions
17.11.05
All
Vice-Chancellor
Revised policy
01.10.03
All
Marketing and Communication Director
Updated
18.10.02
All
Corporate Communication Director
Updated
29.10.98
All
Corporate Communication Director
Revised
Top 
    Chapter A | Chapter B | Chapter C | Chapter D | Chapter E | Chapter F | Chapter G | Chapter H | Chapter I | Appendices | Protocol for MOPP Policy | Recent Updates
    QUT Home | MOPP Home
    CRICOS No. 00213J
    Privacy | Copyright | Accessibility
    Last modified 13-May-2010
    Contact us | Feedback | Disclaimer
