QUT | MOPP | F/3.4 Media relations
            QUT&nbsp;Home
          Contact&nbsp;us
          Search
      MOPP Home
      Protocol for MOPP Policy
      Recent Updates
      F/3.4 Media relations
Chapters
A - Governance/Organisation
B - Human Resources
C - Learning/Teaching
D - Research/Development
E - Student Administration
F - Information Management
G - Financial Management
H - Physical Facilities
I - International/Community
MOPP Appendices
MOPP Protocol
MOPP Updates
[Print-friendly version]
Contact OfficerDirector, Marketing and Communication 
Approval Date02/02/2009 
Approval AuthorityVice-Chancellor 
Date of Next Review01/01/2012 
3.4.1 Responding to media enquiries 
3.4.2 Media access to campuses 
3.4.3 QUT spokespersons 
3.4.4 Issuing media releases 
3.4.5 Academic comment in the media 
3.4.6 Crisis communication 
Modification History 
3.4.1 Responding to media enquiries 
The Marketing and Communication Department facilitates media contact with subject experts across the
  University and its senior management by proactively issuing news releases and story leads and by responding
  to incoming requests from journalists. The 
Marketing
  and Communication Department
also provides advice and training to staff in dealing with
  media.
Top 
3.4.2 Media access to campuses 
Media representatives are permitted access to all campuses (campus parking staff require prior advice).
Top 
3.4.3 QUT spokespersons 
The Vice-Chancellor is principal spokesperson for QUT on matters of policy or corporate issues, but
  may delegate this role to an appropriate person, depending on the issue.
Generally, media enquiries are referred to Marketing and Communication Department to solicit a timely,
  accurate response.
Top 
3.4.4 Issuing media releases 
Official QUT media releases are issued only by Marketing and Communication Department. This ensures
  that
the content is professionally written in journalistic style
the story is unlikely to clash with another major QUT story issued on the same day
the Department is aware of what stories are released as well as the availability of the spokespersons
    when media make enquiries.
Top 
3.4.5 Academic comment in the media 
Academic staff are encouraged to share their expertise with media on matters of community interest
  and to talk directly to media on matters within their area of qualification and expertise. Comment
  on matters outside the academic staff members' area of expertise should be made in their capacity as
  a private citizen.
Staff in Marketing and Communication Department who deal with journalists on a daily basis can help
  gain media attention and provide professional advice. The Department maintains a list of expertise
  of QUT staff to help media find appropriate interviewees.
Top 
3.4.6 Crisis communication 
When a critical incident occurs, many people internally and externally, including media, seek timely
information and an official QUT response. In these situations
a crisis team is assembled quickly by the Vice-Chancellor or nominee to establish the facts and
    to decide what action is necessary, including what needs to be communicated quickly to stakeholder
    groups
a single spokesperson is appointed to handle media enquiries - all media enquiries are directed
    through Marketing and Communication Department
Marketing and Communication Department, in conjunction with the appointed spokesperson, normally
    prepares a written media statement for issue as appropriate - the spokesperson must be available
    to answer questions, by phone or live, at any point during the crisis period.
After-hours telephone numbers of key QUT staff are available from Central Monitoring Services on ext
  85585 at all times, as are numbers for the Marketing and Communication Director and Media Manager.
QUT has a Counter Disaster Plan for each campus to provide direction to persons who have a responsibility
  to respond to or undertake a role relating to any disaster or critical incident that may occur on the
  campus (see 
H/3.4.10
Top 
Modification History 
Date
Sections
Source
Details
   02.02.09
   All
   Vice-Chancellor
   Periodic review - minor revisions
17.11.05
All
Vice-Chancellor
Revised policy
01.10.03
All
Marketing and Communication Director
Updated
18.10.02
All
Corporate Communication Director
Updated
29.10.98
All
Corporate Communication Director
Revised
Top 
    Chapter A | Chapter B | Chapter C | Chapter D | Chapter E | Chapter F | Chapter G | Chapter H | Chapter I | Appendices | Protocol for MOPP Policy | Recent Updates
    QUT Home | MOPP Home
    CRICOS No. 00213J
    Privacy | Copyright | Accessibility
    Last modified 13-May-2010
    Contact us | Feedback | Disclaimer
