QUT | MOPP | F/3.3 Advertising policy
            QUT&nbsp;Home
          Contact&nbsp;us
          Search
      MOPP Home
      Protocol for MOPP Policy
      Recent Updates
      F/3.3 Advertising policy
Chapters
A - Governance/Organisation
B - Human Resources
C - Learning/Teaching
D - Research/Development
E - Student Administration
F - Information Management
G - Financial Management
H - Physical Facilities
I - International/Community
MOPP Appendices
MOPP Protocol
MOPP Updates
[Print-friendly version]
Contact OfficerDirector, Marketing and Communication 
Approval Date02/02/2009 
Approval AuthorityVice-Chancellor 
Date of Next Review01/01/2012 
3.3.1 Management and coordination of advertising 
3.3.2 Booking advertisements 
3.3.3 Approval of advertisements 
3.3.4 Third party advertisements 
3.3.5 Advertising by external parties in QUT publications 
3.3.6 Advertising by external parties on QUT web pages 
3.3.7 Advertising agency services 
Related Documents 
Modification History 
3.3.1 Management and coordination of advertising 
The Marketing and Communication Department manages all aspects of QUT advertising in all media (print,
  broadcast, on-line), except staff recruitment advertising. The Human Resources Department coordinates
  all staff recruitment advertising in formats approved in advance by the Marketing and Communication
Director.
Top 
3.3.2 Booking advertisements 
All bookings for advertising media must be made through the Marketing and Communication Department.
  This ensures that QUT is able to take advantage of government rates for media space and honour any contractual
  agreements the University may have with media agencies from time to time. Procedures for booking advertisements
  are available on the 
Marketing
and Communication website
Top 
3.3.3 Approval of advertisements 
All advertisements are checked by the Marketing and Communication Department for quality and compliance,
  for example with the 
ESOS Act
 Competition and Consumer Act
or 
Privacy Act
  All finished advertisements are approved by the Marketing Communication Director.
Top 
3.3.4 Third party advertisements 
Advertisements that are not paid for by QUT but which carry the QUT logo (for example course promotions
  initiated by international partners) are subject to approval by the Marketing and Communication Director.
  This requirement should be stipulated in any agreement negotiated with third parties.
Top 
3.3.5 Advertising by external parties in QUT publications 
Advertising by external parties is accepted in QUT publications under the following guidelines:
Advertisements should be appropriate for the publication and its readership, and must conform to
    QUT policies (eg policies on drug and alcohol abuse and discrimination).
The University has the right to refuse any advertiser. This right is exercised through responsibility
    centres, under advice from the Marketing and Communication Director,
Advertising from other universities or competing institutions will be accepted only if the responsibility
    centre responsible for the publication is satisfied the content of the advertisement is not in conflict
    with the interests of QUT or any of its components.
Acceptance of loose inserts and giveaways is at the discretion of the relevant responsibility centre
    (in consultation with the Marketing and Communication Director) after considering suitability and
    costs of insertion and/or mailing.
All revenue generated from advertising will go to the responsibility centre paying for the publication
    - except for any fees payable to an organisation or individual contracted by the University to sell
    space in the publication.
Any responsibility centre intending to actively market a publication to prospective advertisers
    (rather than simply accepting requests from advertisers to place advertisements), or to hire a consultant
    to do such marketing, should consult with the Marketing and Communication Director to ensure that
    prospective advertisers are approached by QUT in a coordinated and professional manner.
Advertising rates for individual publications are fixed by the responsibility centre. These are
    determined by market forces and the need to ensure that the revenue gained (after external commissions
    or internal staff and other costs incurred in soliciting advertising) exceeds the additional production
    and printing costs incurred through acceptance of the advertisements.
Top 
3.3.6 Advertising by external parties on QUT web pages 
Paid advertising by external organisations (ie an external advertiser's message or logo) on University
  web pages is not permitted. However, where a broader sponsorship arrangement exists with an external
  organisation, this may be acknowledged by QUT in text (no external logos) on the appropriate University
  web page/s. In these situations, the sponsor's name in the text may provide a hyperlink to the organisation's
  website or to more information about QUT's relationship with the organisation. Any exceptions to this
  policy must be approved by the Marketing and Communication Director.
Top 
3.3.7 Advertising agency services 
The University appoints an advertising agency to provide professional advice and creative services
  for corporate branding campaigns and other key projects. All agency briefs are managed through the
  Marketing and Communication Department. No other area of the University may engage any advertising
  agency for any purpose without the prior written approval of the Marketing and Communication Director.
Top 
Related Documents 
MOPP F/2.1 QUT corporate identity
Top 
Modification History 
Date
Sections
Source
Details
   02.02.09
   All
   Vice-Chancellor
   Periodoc review - no change
17.11.05
All
Vice-Chancellor
Revised policy; policy renumbered to F/3.3 (formerly F/3.2)
01.10.03
All
Marketing and Communication Director
Updated
18.10.02
All
Corporate Communication Director
Updated
08.11.00
F/3.3.1
Director Human Resources Department
Revised following changes to staff advertising processes
12.01.99
All
Corporate Communication Director
Revised
29.10.98
All
Corporate Communication Director
Revised
Top 
    Chapter A | Chapter B | Chapter C | Chapter D | Chapter E | Chapter F | Chapter G | Chapter H | Chapter I | Appendices | Protocol for MOPP Policy | Recent Updates
    QUT Home | MOPP Home
    CRICOS No. 00213J
    Privacy | Copyright | Accessibility
    Last modified 11-Feb-2011
    Contact us | Feedback | Disclaimer
