QUT | MOPP | F/4.2 Printing services
            QUT&nbsp;Home
          Contact&nbsp;us
          Search
      MOPP Home
      Protocol for MOPP Policy
      Recent Updates
      F/4.2 Printing services
Chapters
A - Governance/Organisation
B - Human Resources
C - Learning/Teaching
D - Research/Development
E - Student Administration
F - Information Management
G - Financial Management
H - Physical Facilities
I - International/Community
MOPP Appendices
MOPP Protocol
MOPP Updates
[Print-friendly version]
Contact OfficerManager, QUT Printing Services 
Approval Date28/11/2006 
Approval AuthorityVice-Chancellor 
Date of Next Review01/12/2009 
4.2.1 Digital print production 
4.2.2 Digital reproduction including photocopying / laser printing 
4.2.3 Procurement of QUT corporate stationery 
Related Documents 
Modification History 
4.2.1 Digital print production 
Bulk-run digital printing or photocopying of non-promotional material, where no design or typesetting
  is required, is handled directly through QUT Printing Services. 
QUT
  Printing Services
, produces high quality digital printing such as:
newsletters
brochures, from single to multi-page publications
bulk-run digital printing
printing of budget documents and other reports
course packs
examination papers
theses
variable data
educational print material.
QUT Printing Services will arrange quotes for all printing needs and coordinate production. QUT Printing
  Services will quote and coordinate for responsibility centres, printing requests that are beyond the
  capabilities of the University printery through external print providers.
Top 
4.2.2 Digital reproduction including photocopying / laser printing 
QUT Printing Services offers  high volume photocopying and printing.
Whenever practical,  responsibility centres requiring more than 30 copies of any document over five  pages in length should send the document to QUT Printing Services. Documents  may be sent by internal mail, email or transferred digitally via the QUT  network.
Responsibility centres  intending to purchase, rent or lease digital reproduction units (including  photocopiers and laser printers) should consult QUT Printing Services to  ascertain their requirements prior to obtaining quotations from possible  suppliers.
For units capable of up to 45  copies / impressions per minute, or a duty cycle less than 55,000 pages per  month, there are three options.
QUT Printing Services offers a facility management approach. This is subject to certain conditions relating to       equipment availability and the specifications required to satisfy the local area demand.
After consultation with QUT Printing Services, responsibility centres may still arrange their own purchase, rent or lease 
1
of digital reproduction units for photocopying or laser printing, providing they do not exceed the stated 45 copies / impressions per minute or monthly loading of 55,000 copies.
Laser printers must not exceed the 45 copies / impressions per minute but are not subject to the duty cycle restriction.
Responsibility centres with  copy and print demands in excess of the rated 45 copies / impressions per  minute or 55,000 copies per month will be required to direct their overflow to QUT Printing Services.
1
All  lease agreements for digital reproduction units, including photocopiers and laser printers, must be approved by the Corporate Finance Director (see 
Financial  Management Practice and Procedures Manual
, Chapter 8(B).
Top 
4.2.3 Procurement of QUT corporate stationery 
University corporate stationery is procured through QUT Printing Services. The following stationery
  items are available:
envelopes
letter head paper
with compliments slips
report covers
corporate folders
certificates
stickers
address labels
convention tags
scannable forms
examination booklets.
The Vice-Chancellor approves the corporate identity that is applied to stationery items (see 
F/2.1
Top 
Related Documents 
MOPP F/4.1 Publishing and printing
Top 
Modification History 
Date
Sections
Source
Details
28.11.06
F/4.2.2
Vice-Chancellor
Revised policy
17.11.05
All
Vice-Chancellor
Revised policy
Top 
    Chapter A | Chapter B | Chapter C | Chapter D | Chapter E | Chapter F | Chapter G | Chapter H | Chapter I | Appendices | Protocol for MOPP Policy | Recent Updates
    QUT Home | MOPP Home
    CRICOS No. 00213J
    Privacy | Copyright | Accessibility
    Last modified 13-May-2010
    Contact us | Feedback | Disclaimer
