QUT | MOPP | F/5.1 Copyright policy
            QUT&nbsp;Home
          Contact&nbsp;us
          Search
      MOPP Home
      Protocol for MOPP Policy
      Recent Updates
      F/5.1 Copyright policy
Chapters
A - Governance/Organisation
B - Human Resources
C - Learning/Teaching
D - Research/Development
E - Student Administration
F - Information Management
G - Financial Management
H - Physical Facilities
I - International/Community
MOPP Appendices
MOPP Protocol
MOPP Updates
[Print-friendly version]
Contact OfficerUniversity Copyright Officer, Division of Technology, Information and Learning Support 
Approval Date08/06/2007 
Approval AuthorityVice-Chancellor 
Date of Next Review01/07/2010 
5.1.1 Policy principles 
5.1.2 Responsibilities 
5.1.3 QUT Copyright Guide
5.1.4 Licence agreements
5.1.5 Internet  material
5.1.6 Teaching materials online
5.1.7 Computer software
5.1.8 Penalties
Related Documents 
Modification History
5.1.1 Policy principles 
QUT is committed to the proper observance of copyright law  under the provisions of the Copyright Act  1968 (Cwth), and to upholding the rights of creators and users. Staff and  students have an obligation to ensure that they are familiar with the  provisions of the Copyright Act, and it is the responsibility of all staff and  students to comply with copyright law.
The  Copyright Act gives protection to four categories of &quot;works&quot; (literary,  dramatic, musical, and artistic works) and four categories of &ldquo;subject matter  other than works&rdquo; (cinematograph films, sound recordings, broadcasts, and  published editions of works). Under the Copyright Act, copyright owners are  given certain exclusive rights for limited periods of time.  Details of the categories of works and the  rights of copyright owners are provided in the QUT Copyright Guide.
Top 
5.1.2 Responsibilities 
University  Copyright Officer
The University Copyright Officer is  responsible for assisting staff and students to understand their obligations  under the Copyright Act.
Deputy  Vice-Chancellor (Technology, Information and Learning Support)
The Deputy Vice-Chancellor (Technology,  Information and Learning Support) is responsible for implementing policy and  providing advice regarding compliance with copyright law and related licensing  processes and agreements.
All  staff
Copyright compliance is an essential part of  every QUT staff member's job.  Staff must  follow any copyright compliance procedures prescribed by the Deputy Vice-Chancellor  (Technology, Information and Learning Support) under this policy.
Heads  of organisational units
Managers are responsible for copyright  compliance in the business activities of their organisational unit. Managers  must ensure: 
   that staff are aware of and follow copyright compliance procedures; 
  that breaches are dealt with appropriately, taking advice from the University  Copyright Officer and the Deputy Vice-Chancellor (Technology, Information  and Learning Support).
Top 
5.1.3 QUT Copyright Guide 
The QUT Copyright Guide provides a comprehensive guide to copyright matters of relevance to the University.
While every effort is made to  keep the Copyright Guide up to date, Australian and international copyright law  is in a constant state of change in response to rapid technological development.  It is therefore advisable to consult the University Copyright Officer on any  issue where there is uncertainty as to the correct procedure. 
Top
5.1.4 Licence agreements
The University has entered  into several licence agreements which assist it to meet its obligations in  respect of certain provisions of the Copyright Act.  The University also enters into voluntary  commercial licence agreements for the use of information resources, information  technology and software.  The Deputy  Vice-Chancellor (Technology, Information and Learning Support) has the  delegated authority to sign information resources, information technology and  software licensing agreements to be used by the University, and copyright  agreements with Copyright Agency Limited (CAL) and Screenrights (see Schedule of  Authorities and Delegations ).
The University is committed to  compliance with its statutory and commercial licences for the use of copyright  material.  It is also committed to  compliance with the terms of open licences such as Creative Commons, and open  source software licences. Such licences are attached to the material itself and  their terms give users broad rights to deal with the material on certain  conditions. 
Top
5.1.5 Internet material
Copyright law applies to online materials as well as  hard copy materials.
Apart from any fair dealing  for individual use or educational use, as permitted by the Copyright Act,  material found on the Internet should not be used for any other purpose without  a licence from the copyright owner. Using University information facilities to  download, upload, share, store or transmit copyright material without the  permission of the copyright owner is a breach of QUT's Acceptable use of information technology resources policy (F/1.11). 
Top 5.1.6 Teaching materials online
Making digital copies of print  material available online is covered by the Copyright Actand the CAL licence. The quantity restrictions and  marking requirements are complex, and digital copies of material copied under  the licence must only be made available via the Course Materials Database.  Digitised copyright material must not be made available on publicly accessible  websites, as this infringes an exclusive right of the copyright holder.
A full description of the  compliance requirements can be found in the QUT Copyright Guide (under  Teaching Support).
Top5.1.7 Computer software
QUT is committed to providing  sufficient copies of legitimately acquired software to meet the needs of the  University and its staff, and to complying with all licence conditions  accompanying any software acquired or used.
The following principles apply  to computer software used on QUT facilities: 
  QUT licenses the use of its computer  software from a variety of outside companies. QUT does not own the  copyright in this software or its related documentation and, unless  authorised by the software developer, does not have the right to reproduce  either the software or accompanying manuals. 
  Where software is used on local area  networks or multiple machines, QUT staff and students may use such  software only in accordance with the licence agreement. 
  QUT staff learning of any illegal  copying of software or related documentation within the University shall  notify the relevant manager, who may require advice from the University  Copyright Officer.
  Copying of computer software by an  employee, or instructing another employee to copy software, without  authorisation from the copyright owner, is in breach of the Copyright Act.
Top  5.1.8  Penalties
The University does not  tolerate the making or use of unauthorised copies of copyright material by its  staff. Such action can expose the staff member to disciplinary measures and  possible legal action.
QUT staff are required to be  aware that under the Copyright Act, unauthorised duplication of copyright  material can expose the University and individual employees to significant fines,  together with claims for civil damages and/or possible jail terms.
Students who use University  facilities to make or distribute unauthorised copies of copyright material may  be dealt with in accordance with the Acceptable use of information technology resources policy (F/1.11).
Top     
Related Documents 
MOPP B/8.1 Code of Conduct
MOPP D/3.1 Intellectual property policy
 MOPP F/1.1 Provision and use of information resources and services
MOPP F/1.2 Information security policy
MOPP F/1.11 Acceptable use of information technology resources
Copyright Act 1968  (Cwth)
QUT Copyright Guide
Top 
Modification History 
Date
Sections
Source
Details
  15.09.10
  All
  Governance Services
  Policy revised to reflect repeal of Information Facilities Rules
  08.06.07
  All 
  Vice-Chancellor
  Revised policy and  re-numbered to F/5.1 (formerly F/12.1)
  07.12.05
  All 
  Deputy Vice-Chancellor  (Technology, Information and Learning Support) 
  Updated 
  06.08.02
  All 
  University Copyright  Officer
  Updated 
  28.03.01
  F/12.1.5 
  University Copyright  Officer
  Updated to incorporate  amendments to Copyright Act (effective 4.3.01) 
22.03.00
All 
University Copyright  Officer
Updated 
04.11.98
All
University Copyright  Officer
Updated 
Top 
    Chapter A | Chapter B | Chapter C | Chapter D | Chapter E | Chapter F | Chapter G | Chapter H | Chapter I | Appendices | Protocol for MOPP Policy | Recent Updates
    QUT Home | MOPP Home
    CRICOS No. 00213J
    Privacy | Copyright | Accessibility
    Last modified 01-Oct-2010
    Contact us | Feedback | Disclaimer
