QUT | MOPP | G/1.1 Financial management
            QUT&nbsp;Home
          Contact&nbsp;us
          Search
      MOPP Home
      Protocol for MOPP Policy
      Recent Updates
      G/1.1 Financial management
Chapters
A - Governance/Organisation
B - Human Resources
C - Learning/Teaching
D - Research/Development
E - Student Administration
F - Information Management
G - Financial Management
H - Physical Facilities
I - International/Community
MOPP Appendices
MOPP Protocol
MOPP Updates
[Print-friendly version]
Contact OfficerDirector, Corporate Finance, Finance and Resource Planning 
Approval Date19/06/2008 
Approval AuthorityExecutive Director, Finance and Resource Planning 
Date of Next Review01/06/2011 
1.1.1 Accountability and management 
1.1.2 Legislative environment 
1.1.3 Funding allocation and distribution 
1.1.4 Financial functions, powers and authorities of the University 
1.1.5 Responsible officers 
Related Documents 
Modification History 
1.1.1 Accountability and management 
Subject to accountability requirements specified in the relevant legislation, Council as the governing
  body of QUT is responsible for the management and control of the finances of the University (Section
  9, 
Queensland
University
of Technology Act 1998)
. This includes responsibility
  for the adoption and review of a budget for the University (Section 54, QUT Act 
. Although
  Section 11 of the QUT Act permits Council to delegate certain of its powers and authorities, Council
  may not delegate its duties in relation to the annual adoption of a budget and the approval of the
spending of funds available to the University by way of bequest, donation or special grant.
In accordance with its statutory requirements, the University
prepares annual financial statements following the close of each financial year, certified
      by the Chancellor, the Vice-Chancellor and the Director, Corporate Finance, Finance and Resource Planning
submits annual financial statements to the Auditor-General
prepares and maintains a 
Financial Management Practice and Procedures Manual
of
      policy and procedures for the University's accounting and internal controls
prepares and submits to the appropriate State Government Minister within four months
      of the close of the financial year an annual report which includes a copy of the audited annual
    financial statements.
Planning and Resources Committee
is
  the University's senior financial and resource planning body. The Committee is empowered, on Council's
  behalf, to approve revisions to budgets and formulate policy on investment management. Planning and
  Resources Committee assists and advises Council on financial and resource planning for the University
  and receives advice in turn from the Executive Director, Finance and Resource Planning, regarding the
  educational profile, strategic plans, resource allocation, and performance. Planning and Resources
  Committee also receives advice on the asset management plan, the implementation and administration
  of the financial operations of QUT including investment of funds, payroll, accounts and purchasing,
  and  public accountability requirements.
Audit and Risk Management
    Committee
assists and advises Council on risk management and audit related matters, including
    the performance or discharge of functions and duties under the 
Financial Accountability Act 2009, the 
Financial and Performance Management Standard 2009
and the University's Assurance and Risk Management Services Charter.
The Division of Finance and Resource Planning prepares the University Consolidated Triennial Budget,
March Budget Report, and Budget Reviews for 30 June and 30 September. In addition to this, the Division
also prepares the Financial Outcomes Report, and the Annual Financial Statements for the year ended 31
December each year. 
Top 
1.1.2 Legislative environment 
The financial management of the University is governed by
  its enabling legislation - the Queensland University of Technology Act 1998 (QUT Act) 
  the Financial Accountability Act 2009 
  the Financial Accountability Regulation 2009 
  the Financial and Performance Management Standard 2009 issued in terms of the Financial Accountability Act 2009 Section 57
  the Statutory Bodies Financial Arrangements Act 1982 and the Statutory Bodies Financial Arrangements Amendment Act 2003 
  the Statutory Bodies Financial Arrangements Regulation 1997 
  the Higher Education Support Act 2003 
The accounting concepts and standards used by QUT are in accordance with the Australian equivalent
  International Financial Reporting Standards (AEIFRS).
The University's annual financial statements and internal  controls framework are audited by the Auditor-General of Queensland in  accordance with the Auditor-General Act 2009 and Financial and Performance  Management Standard 2009 Sections 43 and 45. Members  of the University community are responsible for assisting with the satisfactory  conduct of the audit as necessary and for complying with the legislative  requirements.
Top 
1.1.3 Funding allocation and distribution 
Under the Commonwealth Grant Scheme (CGS), the Australian Government contributes funding toward
  the cost of an agreed number of student places. Contribution amounts are determined on a discipline
basis.
A three year formal funding agreement is negotiated between the Department  of Education, Employment and Workplace Relations (DEEWR) and each higher  education provider, and is reviewed annually. The Funding Agreement contains  information about the number of Commonwealth supported places, their type (eg  undergraduate targets), intended discipline distribution and the amount of CGS  funding for the year.
The Australian Government uses the Institution Assessment Framework (IAF) as part of its accountability
  framework. The IAF is founded on the responsibilities of the Commonwealth to ensure that the institutions
  it funds are sustainable and deliver the outputs for which they are funded, that their outcomes are
  of a high quality, and that they comply with their legal obligations.
Additional Commonwealth funding is available through grants for a variety of purposes. These include:
capital development
collaboration and reform
substantial support for specific research projects with grant funds channelled through
      other agencies, for example, the Australian Research Council (ARC). Such agencies award grants
    to the University for use by individual members of staff or a research team for a project approved
    by the granting agency (see section 
D/1.1.5
grants to enhance teaching and learning
grants for purposes such as promotion of equal opportunity, Aboriginal and Torres
    Strait Islander participation projects and projects of national priority, and
grants for unspecified research or other purposes.
Internally, funds are distributed on a monthly basis across QUT based on the Consolidated Budget,
  updated for the June and September Reforecast. The Triennial Budget development is tied closely to
  the University's planning process and is approved by Council before the end of the year prior to its
  implementation.
Top 
1.1.4 Financial functions, powers and authorities of the University 
QUT is a body corporate, has a seal, and may sue and be sued in its corporate name. Under the QUT
Act, the University may
enter into contracts
acquire, hold, dispose of, and deal with property
appoint agents and attorneys
engage consultants
fix charges, and other terms, for services and other facilities it supplies
establish or administer trust funds.
In addition to its main teaching, research and service functions, the University is also empowered
  to exploit commercially any of its facilities or resources for the benefit of the University.
Top 
1.1.5 Responsible officers 
The Vice-Chancellor, as chief executive officer, is responsible to Council for all aspects of the
  institution's management, including its financial affairs. The Vice-Chancellor is assisted in this
duty by the following direct reports:
the Registrar - for administrative aspects
the Executive Director, Finance and Resource Planning - for planning, resource allocation
      and financial management.
The Executive Director, Finance and Resource Planning, is responsible for ensuring that the accountability
  obligations of QUT are met.
Heads of individual responsibility centres are responsible for the efficient and effective management
  of all funds under their control and are bound by the policies and practices set down by QUT in line
  with its financial obligations.
Appendix 3
identifies financial
  responsibilities, delegations and signing authorities.
Top 
Related Documents 
QUT Act 1998
MOPP A/2.2 University planning framework
MOPP Appendix 3 - Schedule of Authorities and Delegations
Top 
Modification History 
Date
Sections
Source
Details
  19.06.08
  G/1.1.3
  Acting Executive Director (Finance and Resource Planning)
  Updated policy
06.09.05
All
Executive Director (Finance and Resource Planning)
Updated
12.11.04
G/1.1.3
Executive Director (Finance and Resource Planning)
Updated policy
07.05.04
All
Executive Director (Finance and Resource Planning)
Updated policy; revised policy format (amalgamated former sections G/1.1 to G/1.4 into new policy G/1.1 Financial Management)
24.05.99
G/1.1
Finance Manager
Updated
Top 
    Chapter A | Chapter B | Chapter C | Chapter D | Chapter E | Chapter F | Chapter G | Chapter H | Chapter I | Appendices | Protocol for MOPP Policy | Recent Updates
    QUT Home | MOPP Home
    CRICOS No. 00213J
    Privacy | Copyright | Accessibility
    Last modified 13-May-2010
    Contact us | Feedback | Disclaimer
