QUT | MOPP | G/2.3 Staff gifts and benefits
            QUT&nbsp;Home
          Contact&nbsp;us
          Search
      MOPP Home
      Protocol for MOPP Policy
      Recent Updates
      G/2.3 Staff gifts and benefits
Chapters
A - Governance/Organisation
B - Human Resources
C - Learning/Teaching
D - Research/Development
E - Student Administration
F - Information Management
G - Financial Management
H - Physical Facilities
I - International/Community
MOPP Appendices
MOPP Protocol
MOPP Updates
[Print-friendly version]
Contact OfficerDirector, Corporate Finance, Finance and Resource Planning 
Approval Date19/06/2008 
Approval AuthorityExecutive Director, Finance and Resource Planning 
Date of Next Review01/06/2011 
2.3.1 Policy 
2.3.2 Nominal gifts or benefits 
2.3.3 Significant gifts or benefits 
2.3.4 Reportable gifts or benefits 
2.3.5 Intangible gifts or benefits 
2.3.6 Register of Significant and Reportable Gifts 
Modification History 
2.3.1 Policy 
A member of the University shall not
solicit for private purposes any benefit in connection with that person's official function and
    duties
accept any benefit for any official function or duties performed or not performed which could create
    a conflict of interest or be seen to create such conflict
accept any gift or money or benefit by way of loans and the like for any functions or duties performed
    or not performed.
A member of the University may accept a tangible (of lasting value) or intangible (of no lasting value)
  gift or benefit not referred to above provided that:
if the fair value of the gift or benefit is less than $50 the person gives prior advice to his
    or her Section Head of the circumstances and the gift or benefit;
if fair value of the gift or benefit is between $50 and $250, a significant gift declaration is
    submitted to the Director, Corporate Finance, and the gift or benefit is reported in the Register
    of Significant and Reportable Gifts (see 
G/2.3.6
if amount of the gift or benefit exceeds $250, a reportable gift declaration is submitted to the
    Director, Corporate Finance, and the gift or benefit is reported in the Register of Significant
    and Reportable Gifts.
Members of the University should be aware of the provisions of the QUT 
Code
      of Conduct
Top 
2.3.2 Nominal gifts or benefits 
Monetary nominal gifts should not be accepted under any circumstances.
Nominal gifts or benefits have a fair value less than $50. Examples include, but are not limited to,
  entertainment, hospitality, a bottle of wine, bunch of flowers, and box of chocolates.
Any gift accepted by a member of the University is the property of the University. At the discretion
  of the relevant Section Head the University may retain the gift or the member may retain the gift under
  the terms of this policy.
Top 
2.3.3 Significant gifts or benefits 
Monetary significant gifts should not be accepted under any circumstances.
Significant gifts or benefits are construed as a single gift of property (including ornate and precision
  display items, clocks, furniture, figurines, works of art, jewellery, computers, palm pilots (or similar),
  equipment, or any benefit having significant or lasting real value), travel, entertainment or hospitality
  of a fair value between $50 and $250.
Significant gifts or benefits, including intangible gifts, whether received or given are to be recorded
  in the Register of Significant and Reportable Gifts (
G/2.3.6
Any gift accepted by a member of the University is the property of the University and must be declared
  to the Director, Corporate Finance, within 14 days. At the discretion of the relevant head of school
  / department, the University may retain the gift or the member may retain the gift under the terms
  of this policy.
In respect to the provision of speaking services at a conference by a University member, it is possible
  that a significant gift may be received as a gesture of thanks or in lieu of speaker fees. Under such
  circumstances, GST consequences may arise and therefore specific advice should be obtained from the
  Associate Director, Accounting Services.
Top 
2.3.4 Reportable gifts or benefits 
Monetary reportable gifts should not be accepted under any circumstances.
Reportable gifts or benefits are construed as a single gift of property (including ornate and precision
  display items, clocks, furniture, figurines, works of art, jewellery, computers, palm pilots (or similar),
  equipment, or any benefit having significant or lasting real value), travel, entertainment or hospitality
  of a fair value greater than $250.
However if a member of the University receives multiple significant gifts or benefits, from the same
  giver, within one year of the first gift, and the aggregate fair value of all gifts exceeds $250, then
  all are reportable gifts.
Reportable gifts or benefits, including intangible gifts or benefits, whether received or given are
  to be recorded in the Register of Significant and Reportable Gifts (
G/2.3.6
A reportable gift or benefit given to a University member is the property of the University. However,
  at the discretion of the relevant executive dean of faculty / head of division, the University member
  may purchase the gift or benefit by paying to the University the difference between the fair value
  of the reportable gift or benefit and the reportable gift or benefit threshold (currently $250). Such
  payments are not required for intangible reportable gifts and benefits.
In respect to the provision of speaking services at a conference by a University member, it is possible
  that a reportable gift may be received as a gesture of thanks or in lieu of speaker fees. Under such
  circumstances, GST consequences may arise and therefore specific advice should be obtained from the
  Associate Director, Accounting Services.
The executive dean of faculty / head of division must approve any reportable gift proposed to be given
  by the University, prior to its presentation.
Top 
2.3.5 Intangible gifts or benefits 
An intangible gift or benefit is one which has no lasting value and which cannot be dealt with as
property of the University.
Examples of intangible gifts or benefits include but are not limited to:
entertainment and hospitality;
tickets to the theatre, cultural events, sporting and other events;
corporate offers of transportation, accommodation, tickets, meals, and functions;
conference transportation, accommodation and fees.
An intangible gift or benefit can be nominal, significant, or reportable and must be dealt with in
  the way that suits its classification, except that, if it is a reportable gift and is retained by the
  University member, there is no requirement to reimburse the University for the difference between its
  fair value and $250.
Top 
2.3.6 Register of Significant and Reportable Gifts 
A Register of Significant and Reportable Gifts is maintained by the Director, Corporate Finance,
to record:
details of the gift or benefit; and
the parties involved; and
in the case of significant and reportable gifts made, the approval given; and
in the case of significant and reportable gifts received, the present location of the gift or how
    the proceeds of the gift were applied.
The Register of Significant and Reportable Gifts will be reviewed every three months by the Corporate Finance Department
   to identify any trends or patterns that may cause concern and need corrective
  or preventative action.
The above provisions should not be construed as prohibiting the pursuit of financial assistance or
  benefit to the University.
Top 
Modification History 
Date
Sections
Source
Details
  19.06.08
  All
  Acting Executive Director, Finance and Resource Planning
  Policy reviewed &ndash; no change required
06.09.05
All
Executive Director, Finance and Resource Planning
Policy reviewed (no change required) and renumbered to G/2.3 (formerly G/10.1)
10.12.03
All
Acting Director, Financial Services
Revised in accordance with the requirements of the new Gifts and Benefits Policy
        of the Queensland Government (No. 03/72036)
27.06.03
All
Secretariat Manager
Added reference to QUT Code of Conduct in accordance with Internal Audit Report
        on Potential Conflict of Interests - Report No 2002/40 (April 2003)
01.03.02
All
Director, Accounting Services
Updated value of reportable gift in accordance with Financial Management Standard
        (Amendment 1, 2001)
24.05.99
All
Finance Manager
Updated
Top 
    Chapter A | Chapter B | Chapter C | Chapter D | Chapter E | Chapter F | Chapter G | Chapter H | Chapter I | Appendices | Protocol for MOPP Policy | Recent Updates
    QUT Home | MOPP Home
    CRICOS No. 00213J
    Privacy | Copyright | Accessibility
    Last modified 13-May-2010
    Contact us | Feedback | Disclaimer
