QUT | MOPP | G/3.3 Liabilities
            QUT&nbsp;Home
          Contact&nbsp;us
          Search
      MOPP Home
      Protocol for MOPP Policy
      Recent Updates
      G/3.3 Liabilities
Chapters
A - Governance/Organisation
B - Human Resources
C - Learning/Teaching
D - Research/Development
E - Student Administration
F - Information Management
G - Financial Management
H - Physical Facilities
I - International/Community
MOPP Appendices
MOPP Protocol
MOPP Updates
[Print-friendly version]
Contact OfficerDirector, Corporate Finance, Finance and Resource Planning 
Approval Date03/03/2010 
Approval AuthorityExecutive Director, Finance and Resource Planning 
Date of Next Review01/03/2013 
3.3.1 Management of liabilities 
3.3.2 Payables 
3.3.3 Interest bearing liabilities 
3.3.4 Tax liabilities 
3.3.5 Provisions 
3.3.6 Other liabilities 
Modification History 
3.3.1 Management of liabilities 
QUT is required to establish and record all financial transactions so that any liabilities are recorded
and the financial statements correctly reflect current expenditure and future expenditure commitments.
Liabilities are the claims held against an organisation or individual's  assets. Liabilities may constitute goods or services received and for which  later payment is due, or expenditure commitments relating to employees such as  long service leave, accrued annual leave etc.
  The Director, Corporate Finance is responsible  for accounting for all University liabilities and developing
  and maintaining adequate systems to monitor and ensure:
liabilities are not incurred without proper authority
liabilities are promptly identified, assessed and recorded, and
appropriate authorisation and payment procedures apply when liabilities are settled
    by payment of money.
Liabilities to be accounted include those listed below.
Top 
3.3.2 Payables 
A payable is a debt that is currently due. Payables include:
  trade creditors (invoices with regular trade customers that have been incurred but not yet paid) 
   goods and services received but where invoice has yet to be forwarded 
   claims incurred but not reported under superannuation, insurance, grant or subsidy schemes 
   accrued salaries (salary costs yet to be paid at the end of a period) 
   accrued expenses (the recognition of activities that have occurred but have yet to be invoiced) 
   any other costs that have been incurred but not yet paid. 
Policies relating to expenditure transactions and the implications for the liability of payables are
  outlined in G/5.
Top 
3.3.3 Interest bearing liabilities 
Interest bearing liabilities are liabilities that attract an interest cost to the debt. These include:
  finance leases       for which the University must receive approval from the Treasurer of Queensland       to enter into (if over a certain value), and 
   other financial       arrangements which incur an interest charge. 
Top3.3.4 Tax liabilities 
A tax liability is a debt owed to the Australian Taxation Office. Although QUT itself does not have
  to pay income taxes, the University has a number of subsidiaries that are liable for taxation. The
  Division of Finance and Resource Planning maintains a register of related QUT companies that may be
liable for taxation.
Top3.3.5 Provisions 
Provisions relate to the act of providing or accounting for future events. Provisions for QUT predominantly
  relate to employee entitlements. These include accrued annual leave, long service leave, any superannuation
  obligation for which the University is responsible and, in the case of sick leave, all of the current
  entitlement where accrued and payable on termination of services or, where not so payable, that part
  of the entitlement accrued which will be required to satisfy any eligible claim arising from a past
event.
Top3.3.6 Other liabilities 
Other liabilities may include a range of transactions relating to other  debts or claims that have occurred including:
  unearned revenue       / revenue received in advance where there is an obligation to provide       future benefits or in default to refund 
  borrowings or       debt servicing arrangements 
  loan       arrangements through Government funding programs (G/3.4.3) 
  any other       material liabilities. 
TopModification History 
Date
Sections
Source
Details
  03.03.10
  All
  Executive Director, Finance and Resource Planning
  Revised policy &ndash; minor editorial changes only
  19.06.08
  All
  Acting Executive Director, Finance and Resource Planning
  Policy reviewed &ndash; no change required
06.09.05
All
Executive Director, Finance and Resource Planning
Revised policy
31.01.05
All
Director, Financial Services
Updated list of liabilities to be accounted for
24.05.99
All
Finance Manager
Updated
Top 
    Chapter A | Chapter B | Chapter C | Chapter D | Chapter E | Chapter F | Chapter G | Chapter H | Chapter I | Appendices | Protocol for MOPP Policy | Recent Updates
    QUT Home | MOPP Home
    CRICOS No. 00213J
    Privacy | Copyright | Accessibility
    Last modified 13-May-2010
    Contact us | Feedback | Disclaimer
