QUT | MOPP | G/3.1 Assets
            QUT&nbsp;Home
          Contact&nbsp;us
          Search
      MOPP Home
      Protocol for MOPP Policy
      Recent Updates
      G/3.1 Assets
Chapters
A - Governance/Organisation
B - Human Resources
C - Learning/Teaching
D - Research/Development
E - Student Administration
F - Information Management
G - Financial Management
H - Physical Facilities
I - International/Community
MOPP Appendices
MOPP Protocol
MOPP Updates
[Print-friendly version]
Contact OfficerDirector, Corporate Finance, Finance and Resource Planning 
Approval Date03/03/2010 
Approval AuthorityExecutive Director, Finance and Resource Planning 
Date of Next Review01/03/2013 
3.1.1 Asset management 
3.1.2 Cash assets 
3.1.3 Receivables 
3.1.4 Inventories 
3.1.5 Other financial assets 
3.1.6 Property, plant and equipment 
3.1.7 Intangible assets 
Related Documents 
Modification History 
3.1.1 Asset management 
An asset is anything of material value and which provides a potential future economic benefit to the University. The  Director, Corporate Finance  is responsible for the strategic management of the University's assets including its property, plant and equipment.
QUT's asset management framework identifies the key elements associated with asset management, namely acquisition, use, disposal and investment. For property, plant and equipment it considers a 'whole of life' approach including operational requirements, acquisition, enhancements, and disposal of assets, all of which have an impact on asset valuations and depreciation.
The University may control other assets under arrangements with other bodies, or under terms of leasing or tenancy agreements.
Further details on asset management are provided  in the Financial  Management Practice and Procedures Manual.
Top 
3.1.2 Cash assets 
Cash assets include monies that are held in  petty cash and in QUT bank accounts, and those monies held by the Queensland  Treasury Corporation (QTC) or other approved financial institution (G/3.2) for short term investment purposes. It is essential  that particulars of all monies due to the University are identified and  appropriately recorded so that they may be collected on or before the due date.  Staff members who collect such monies are responsible for the safe custody of  the collections from the time of receipt until deposited into authorised  University bank accounts. Procedures for management and control of monies are  provided in the Financial  Management Practice and Procedures Manual.
Bank accounts may only be opened with the approval of the Director, Corporate  Finance and only in the name of the Queensland University of Technology. The Director,  Corporate Finance is responsible for authorising officers to operate these  accounts.
Procedures for the conduct of QUT bank accounts are  provided in the 
  Financial
  Management Practice and Procedures Manual.
Top 
3.1.3 Receivables 
A receivable is money owed to the University for goods or services purchased on credit. Receivables
 include trade receivables which are sales to regular trade customers that have been completed but not yet paid for, and student outstanding invoices.
All University debt is administered either  through the student management system for student fees (E/7.1), or through the University's
  finance system for all other activities.
Prior to performing any work or services that will result in a material debt (see 
Financial
    Management Practice and Procedures Manual) by a potential customer to the University,
    the responsibility centre performing the work or services must perform a credit check on the customer
    to ensure that the likelihood of a default is minimised.
Credit notes
Credit notes are raised to cancel or amend an invoice raised in error and may only be issued subsequent
  to approval being given by an officer authorised to commit funds to specific limits, in accordance
with the Schedule of Authorities and Delegations.
Write-off of debt
Debts due to the University may only be written off in accordance with the delegated authorities to
  write off bad debts and assets – see 
Schedule of Authorities and Delegations.
Detailed procedures dealing with revenue, credit  checks, credit notes, debt management and debt write-off are provided in the 
Financial
Management Practice and Procedures Manual.
Top 
3.1.4 Inventories 
Inventories for purposes of QUT assets include land held for resale and stock held by the QUT Bookshop.
  QUT does not normally purchase land for the purposes of resale, however where this is the intention
  the Financial Management Practice
  and Procedures Manual, identifies the appropriate management and accounting for the asset. All purchases of land must be notified to
the Director, Corporate Finance.
Items such as stationery, spare parts, consumables and components, loose tools, consignment stock
  and minor equipment held for resale to students or the public are not considered to be assets. However,
  these items are to be managed and controlled as outlined in the 
Financial Management Practice and Procedures Manual.
Top 
3.1.5 Other financial assets 
Other financial assets include medium to long term investment funds (G/3.2) and investments in  associated companies. 
The University has a number of associated companies and treatment of these  companies is outlined in the Financial  Management Practice and Procedures Manual.
Shares  that are fortuitously acquired arising from prior  research activity which recognises part ownership of the inherent  intellectual property may be disposed of subject to the financial  authority of the Vice-Chancellor. 
The  purchase of additional shares within companies already part of the  University's portfolio of investments requires the Vice-Chancellor's approval  and shall only be progressed if directly linked with a clear strategic  positioning and not be speculative in nature.
All  unrealised gains and losses during the period of investment and realised gains  and losses following disposal will be accounted for centrally.
Top 
3.1.6 Property, plant and equipment 
A Fixed Assets Register is maintained by the University for all non-current  assets with acquisition costs in excess of $5 000. This register records all  data necessary to identify and locate assets, together with other relevant  information (eg depreciation, life expectancy).
Assets with acquisition costs less than $5 000 but greater than $2 000  (greater than $1 000 for ICT equipment) are also recorded in the Fixed Asset  Register as portable and attractive items, where required.
Heads of responsibility centres should exercise efficiency and economy in  acquiring assets on the University's behalf and observe University and State  Government purchasing policies.
  Insurance of assets
The Director, Corporate Finance oversees the appointment of an insurance  broker to manage the University's insurance requirements. Details of the  insurance broker and the University's insurance program are available on the Finance and Resource  Planning website.
Rental  of assets
When not required for University purposes, University  assets may be hired to staff and outside bodies on terms and conditions contained  in QUT's policy for user charging (G/8.1).  Requests for new arrangements must be forwarded to the Executive Director,  Finance and Resource Planning for consideration and endorsed by the Vice-Chancellor.
Leasing of assets
A purchase versus lease appraisal should be prepared by the faculty or  division to validate a recommendation to either lease or  purchase an asset. Heads of responsibility centres should obtain  the approval of the Director, Corporate Finance before entering into  commitments for leasing assets.
Loss or damage of assets
Heads of responsibility centres are responsible for reporting any loss of or  damage to assets as soon as possible to the Security Manager, who will take  action to prevent the loss recurring.
  Where appropriate, an insurance claim should be completed as per instructions on  the Finance and Resource  Planning website.
In the event of a possible offence under the Queensland Criminal Code or  other act or law, the Security Manager is required to advise the police and the  Director, Corporate Finance, who shall notify the Auditor-General. Where  official misconduct by a member of the University is indicated, the Security  Manager must instead report the matter to the Registrar who shall notify the  Crime and Misconduct Commission. The Director, Corporate Finance is responsible  for ensuring that all material losses are recorded in the Record of Material  Losses Register (Non-Cash).
Write-off of assets
Action to write-off assets must be in accordance with the delegated  authority (Schedule  of Authorities and Delegations). The Vice-Chancellor can authorise the  write-off of bad debts and assets which are missing, obsolete, irreparable, at  the end of their useful lives or scheduled for replacement where the value exceeds $25 000. The Director, Corporate  Finance can authorise the write-off of bad debts and assets up to the value of  $25 000. Executive deans of faculty / heads of division can authorise the  write-off of assets which are obsolete, at the end of their useful lives or  scheduled for replacement or retirement to the value of $5 000.
Depreciation
Assets are depreciated according to accounting  standards and policies prescribed by legislation. Depreciation is calculated by  applying the straight-line method. Further details are provided in the Financial  Management Practice and Procedures Manual
Disposal
Disposal of items can be made when assets are no longer required, have  reached the end of their useful life, or are technically or economically  redundant. Faculties and divisions are provided with the flexibility of  choosing how to dispose of their assets through methods described in the Financial  Management Practice and Procedures Manual. To be able to make informed  asset disposal decisions, a disposal decision tree has been developed. If a  responsibility centre has assets which are surplus to their requirements, but  still serviceable, they must canvass other areas of the University to determine  whether another responsibility centre has a need for such assets and would be  interested in acquiring those assets. Approval for disposal of assets and  write-offs is in accordance with the delegated authority (Schedule of  Authorities and Delegations).
Assets review
At minimum, an annual review of assets is to be undertaken to verify the  existence of assets recorded in the Fixed Assets Register and to assess the  serviceability of those assets (remaining life and depreciation rate). Any  discrepancies are to be investigated by the responsibility centre. Detailed  procedures are provided in the Financial  Management Practice and Procedures Manual.
Heads of responsibility centres should also annually review asset usage to  determine whether excess capacity exists that may benefit another  responsibility centre by mutual arrangement.  
Control of assets
In addition to the above controls, heads of responsibility centres should also:
implement procedures ensuring as far as possible the security of assets under their
    control
ensure assets are properly maintained with a view to maximising the period of effective
      use
ensure  assets are not exposed to any hazards which may result in the insurance
    contract being rendered null and void in the event of a loss.
Top 
3.1.7 Intangible assets 
An intangible asset is an asset that is without physical substance, such as intellectual  property (IP) and information technology software. Software (including  purchased software) that is not an integral part of hardware is treated as an intangible asset.
Where the  software is an integral part of the related hardware (for example the operating  system), it is treated as Property, Plant and Equipment.
To assess an internally generated intangible asset, the project needs to be  identified at the earliest possible stage. Internally generated assets arising  from development of an internal project must demonstrate that the asset will  generate probable future economic benefit.
Software development can be undertaken in-house and will include activities  such as design and construction, testing, specifications works, pre-production  use, alternatives, improved products, processes or service.
  Further details on intangible assets are provided in the Financial  Management Practice and Procedures Manual.
Top 
Related Documents 
MOPP G/3.2 Investment policy
MOPP H/3.2 Property
Financial Management Practice and Procedures Manual
Top 
Modification History 
Date
Sections
Source
Details
  03.03.10
  All
  Executive Director, Finance and Resource Planning
  Revised policy
  19.06.08
  All
  Acting Executive Director, Finance and Resource Planning
  Policy reviewed &ndash; no change required
06.09.05
All
Executive Director, Finance and Resource Planning
New policy
Top 
    Chapter A | Chapter B | Chapter C | Chapter D | Chapter E | Chapter F | Chapter G | Chapter H | Chapter I | Appendices | Protocol for MOPP Policy | Recent Updates
    QUT Home | MOPP Home
    CRICOS No. 00213J
    Privacy | Copyright | Accessibility
    Last modified 13-May-2010
    Contact us | Feedback | Disclaimer
