QUT | MOPP | G/3.2 Investments
            QUT&nbsp;Home
          Contact&nbsp;us
          Search
      MOPP Home
      Protocol for MOPP Policy
      Recent Updates
      G/3.2 Investments
Chapters
A - Governance/Organisation
B - Human Resources
C - Learning/Teaching
D - Research/Development
E - Student Administration
F - Information Management
G - Financial Management
H - Physical Facilities
I - International/Community
MOPP Appendices
MOPP Protocol
MOPP Updates
[Print-friendly version]
Contact OfficerDirector, Corporate Finance, Finance and Resource Planning 
Approval Date09/12/2009 
Approval AuthorityCouncil 
Date of Next Review01/12/2012 
3.2.1 Scope 
3.2.2 Policy statement 
3.2.3 Investment management 
3.2.4 Roles and responsibilities 
3.2.5 Investment strategy 
3.2.6 Investment parameters and credit requirements 
3.2.7 Governance and reporting 
Related Documents 
Modification History 
3.2.1 Scope 
For the  purposes of this policy, investments are defined as arrangements that are undertaken  or acquired with the expectation of achieving a financial return through interest,  profit or capital growth. The policy applies to the investment of all surplus funds  held by the University and undertaken in accordance with the Statutory Bodies Financial Arrangements Act 1982.
Top3.2.2 Policy statement 
Investments shall be made at the most advantageous rate available at the  time for the particular investment type, and in a way that is considered the  most appropriate given the circumstances. In order of priority, investment  activities shall address:
  preservation  of capital 
  maintenance  of liquidity, and 
  return  on investments.
Investment  practices are subject to the provisions of the following legislative  instruments and administrative procedures:
  Queensland University  of Technology Act 1998 (QUT Act)
  Financial  Accountability Act 2009
  Statutory Bodies  Financial Arrangements Act 1982 (SBFA Act)
  Statutory Bodies  Financial Arrangements Regulation 2007
  QUT&rsquo;s  Financial Management Practice and Procedures Manual.
Top
3.2.3 Investment management 
Prudent person standard
The standard of prudence shall be used when managing the University&rsquo;s investment  portfolio. Investments are to be managed with the care, diligence and skill  that a prudent person would exercise in managing the affairs of other persons.  This includes having in place appropriate reporting requirements to ensure that  investments are reviewed and overseen regularly.
Treasury management
The Treasury Manager, Finance and Resource Planning is required to manage  the University&rsquo;s investment portfolio in accordance with this policy.  Speculative transactions are not permitted.  The security of capital and income objectives will be the major consideration when  making an investment decision.
Investment fund managers
QUT  retains Queensland Treasury Corporation (QTC) and Queensland Investment  Corporation (QIC) as cash and investment fund managers, and may engage other fund  managers from time to time subject to the appropriate approvals.
Top3.2.4 Roles and responsibilities 
The Treasury Manager, Finance and Resource Planning is responsible for: 
  ensuring daily cash balances are kept to a  minimum whilst maintaining sufficient daily cash balances to meet commitments  as they arise;
  placing investments with approved fund managers  and financial institutions;
  ensuring investment practices provide the most  attractive rate of return within approved risk parameters;
  ensuring appropriate records of each trade are  maintained;
  adopting investment practices compliant with relevant  legislation and University policy.
The Reconciliation Officer, Finance and Resource Planning is responsible  for:
  recording all trade activity; 
  matching internal records to external source  documents and confirmations; and 
  reporting on the status, compliance and any  breaches of the investment policy.
The Director, Corporate Finance is responsible for  oversight of the University&rsquo;s treasury function, maximising performance, and ensuring  compliance with relevant legislation and University policy.
The Executive Director, Finance and Resource Planning is responsible  for reporting to Planning and Resources Committee on investment performance,  and to Audit and Risk Management Committee on compliance with relevant  legislation and University policy.
Planning and Resources Committee is responsible for  approval of the investment strategic framework and assessment of investment  performance and strategy to support the objectives of the University.
Audit and Risk Management Committee is  responsible for evaluating the adequacy and effectiveness of established  internal controls and assessing the management of the business risks associated  with the University&rsquo;s investment activities.
Top3.2.5 Investment strategy
a)	Preservation  of capital
Preservation of capital shall be the principal objective of the  investment portfolio. Investments are to be performed in a manner that seeks to  ensure security of the principal balance of the overall portfolio. This  includes managing credit and interest rate risk within given risk management  parameters and avoiding any transactions that would prejudice confidence in the  University or its associated entities.
Credit risk
  The Treasury Manager will evaluate and assess credit risk prior  to investment. Credit risk is the risk of loss due to the failure of an  investment issuer or guarantor. The Treasury Manager will minimise credit risk  in the investment portfolio by pre-qualifying all transactions including the  brokers / securities dealers with which the University does business, diversify  the portfolio and limit transactions to secure investments.
Interest rate risk
  The Treasury Manager shall seek to minimise the risk of a change  in the market value of the portfolio because of a change in interest rates, by considering  the cash flow requirements of the University and structuring the portfolio  accordingly. This will avoid having to sell securities prior to maturity in the  open market. Secondly, interest rate risk can be limited by investing in  shorter term securities.
b)	Maintenance  of liquidity
Pursuant to section 31 of the SBFA Act, the University maintains  a deposit and withdrawal account with an approved financial institution for its  day-to-day operating transactions. In addition to the balances held in its bank  account for routine operating requirements, the investment portfolio will  maintain sufficient liquidity to meet all reasonably anticipated operating cash  flow requirements of the University, as and when they fall due, without  incurring significant transaction costs due to being required to sell an  investment.   For these purposes,  illiquid investments are defined as investments that are not publicly traded in  sufficient volume to facilitate, under most market conditions, prompt sale without  severe market price effect.  
c)	Return  on investments
The portfolio is expected to achieve a market average rate of  return and take into account the University&rsquo;s risk tolerance and current  interest rates, budget considerations, and the economic cycle. Any additional  return target set by QUT Council will also consider the risk limitations,  prudent investment principles and cash flow characteristics identified within  this policy.
d)	Investment  categories
QUT&rsquo;s investable funds are to be matched to the liability profile and cash  flow (liquidity) needs of the University, and fall within the following  categories:
  Short term (under one year) 
  The objective of the short term component is to  ensure there is sufficient liquidity to meet operating expenses (ie daily calls  of Accounts Payable transactions, payroll payments and un-presented cheques),  whilst holding minimal cash in low interest bearing accounts.  These investments should be held in cash with  QTC or placed in short term cash investments with appropriately rated financial  institutions within the approved investment parameters.
  Medium term (one to three years) 
  The objective of the medium term component is to maintain  liquidity to meet the cash demand for operating activities and capital works  programs period of one to three years. These  investments should be held in secure financial instruments that are liquid and have  negligible chance of loss of capital, or the QIC Cash Enhanced Fund.
  Long term (over three years)
  The objective of the long term component is to hold sufficient funds for:
    endowment funds 
    reserves and Sinking Funds for major equipment  and building replacements
    provisions for employees entitlements and other  long term liabilities
    any remaining surplus funds. 
  These  investments are primarily placed with the investment funds manager (QIC)  utilising a combination of QIC Growth Fund and QIC Stable Fund investment  parcels depending on the chosen risk/return requirements of the investment  pools such as endowment funds, provisions or sinking funds.
e)	Trust  monies
Trust monies must be invested in  accordance with the requirements of the SBFA  Act and the QUT Act (Section 52).  Trust  monies may be included with other University monies in a common investment fund  and income distributed from this fund among the participants in the common fund  will be in direct proportion to each contribution.
Trust monies shall be held in secure and  liquid investment types.
f) Direct investments
QUT may on occasions receive direct investments such as shares  or property through donations, bequests or as a result of research and  commercialisation activities. The University&rsquo;s intention is to divest itself of  such investments as soon as practicable, though in limited circumstances direct  investments may be held for strategic purposes. All sales should be conducted  with the objective of maximising investment returns for the University and  ensuring arms length transactions are maintained. 
g)	Derivatives  (hedging foreign currency exchange rate risk)
The University may enter into derivative  transactions, for known purchases only, to hedge against foreign currency exchange  rate risk subject to the requirements of the SBFA Act (Part 7).  Speculative transactions are not  permitted.
Foreign currency transactions are generally  performed based on a daily spot rate provided by the University&rsquo;s foreign  currency supplier.  In limited  circumstances large planned transactions, such as annual library transactions  or large equipment purchases, may be required to be paid in foreign  currencies.  These transactions may be  hedged to offset exchange rate variations.
Each transaction requires prior approval  from the Director, Corporate Finance and must be reported each month to the  Treasurer of Queensland with sufficient details as required in the SBFA Act  (Section 55).  All hedging transactions  will be included in the regular report to Planning and Resources Committee.
Top3.2.6 Investment parameters and credit requirements  
For investments at call or for  a fixed time of not more than one year the University is permitted, under  sections 44 and 45 of the SBFA Act, to use investments with a financial  institution rating by Standard and Poor&rsquo;s (Australia) Pty Ltd (S&amp;P) of A1+,  A1, AAm or AAAm. 
For investments at call or for  a fixed time of greater than one year but not more than three years the  University is permitted, under section 45 of the SBFA Act, to use investments  with a financial institution rating by S&amp;P of AA, AA+ or AAA. 
The following tables show the  credit ratings and counterparty limits for the University.
    Short Term Rating (S&amp;P)
    Institution limit
    Maximum % of Total Portfolio
    QTC/QIC
    100%
    100%
    A1+
    40%
    100%
    A1
    20%
    50%
    A2
    nil
    nil
    Long Term Rating (S&amp;P)
    Institution limit
    Maximum % of Total Portfolio
    QIC
    100%
    100%
    AAA to AA
    40%
    100%
    AA- or lower
    nil
    nil
For the  purposes of QUT&rsquo;s investment portfolio, the percentage limits apply effective  from the date of purchase as a percentage of the market value of the portfolio.
On an annual basis Planning and  Resources Committee will endorse, on recommendation from the Director,  Corporate Finance, a list of financial institutions meeting the above  requirements to which QUT&rsquo;s investments must be confined. Top3.2.7 Governance and reporting  
Performance  measurement
The investment return for the University&rsquo;s  investment portfolio shall be measured using the market value of the portfolio  (including withdrawals and deposits, and total performance of the portfolio),  compared to the Consumer Price Index (CPI) plus a benchmark target return. This  is to include changes in the capital value of assets held (where applicable),  income from managed investment portfolio assets, proceeds of assets sold and  cost of assets acquired. The market value of the portfolio is to be calculated and  adjusted in the financial accounts to coincide with monthly financial  management reporting.
Breach  of policy
Any breach of this investment policy must be  reported to the Director, Corporate Finance immediately.  Action must be taken to resolve the breach within  24 hours of the breach being detected. The Executive Director, Finance and Resources Planning will  report the breach and actions taken to address the breach at the next meeting  of Planning and Resources Committee.
Reporting
The Executive Director, Finance and Resource Planning reports: 
  to Planning and Resources Committee, on a quarterly basis, on investment status and performance; and 
  to Audit and Risk Management Committee, at least annually, on compliance with relevant legislation and the University&rsquo;s investment policy. 
Planning and Resources Committee reports to Council on investment status and performance as required.
Audit and Risk Management Committee reports to Council on investment risks and  compliance.TopRelated Documents
MOPP G/3.4 Borrowings
MOPP Appendix 3 Schedule of Authorities and  Delegations
Financial Management Practice and Procedures  Manual 
TopModification History 
Date 
Sections 
Source 
Details 
   09.12.09 
   All 
  Council
   Revised policy
13.09.06 
All 
Acting Chair, Planning and Resources Committee 
Revised policy (endorsed by Planning and Resources Committee 30.08.06) 
06.09.05 
All 
Executive Director, Finance and Resource Planning 
Policy reviewed (minor amendment to G/3.2.5 to reflect current reporting processes)
        and renumbered (formerly G/3.1) 
07.07.04 
All 
Planning and Resources Committee 
Revised policy 
Top 
    Chapter A | Chapter B | Chapter C | Chapter D | Chapter E | Chapter F | Chapter G | Chapter H | Chapter I | Appendices | Protocol for MOPP Policy | Recent Updates
    QUT Home | MOPP Home
    CRICOS No. 00213J
    Privacy | Copyright | Accessibility
    Last modified 13-May-2010
    Contact us | Feedback | Disclaimer
