QUT | MOPP | G/4.1 Budget
            QUT&nbsp;Home
          Contact&nbsp;us
          Search
      MOPP Home
      Protocol for MOPP Policy
      Recent Updates
      G/4.1 Budget
Chapters
A - Governance/Organisation
B - Human Resources
C - Learning/Teaching
D - Research/Development
E - Student Administration
F - Information Management
G - Financial Management
H - Physical Facilities
I - International/Community
MOPP Appendices
MOPP Protocol
MOPP Updates
[Print-friendly version]
Contact OfficerDirector, Planning and Budget, Finance and Resource Planning 
Approval Date27/04/2010 
Approval AuthorityExecutive Director, Finance and Resource Planning 
Date of Next Review01/05/2013 
4.1.1 Budget overview 
4.1.2 Integration of strategic planning and budget management 
4.1.3 Roles and responsibilities 
4.1.4 Budget cycle 
4.1.5 Corporate level budget development 
4.1.6 Load managment and funding implications 
4.1.7 Budget development and approval 
4.1.8 Budget reforecasting 
4.1.9 Budget reporting 
4.1.10 Budget adjustments 
4.1.11 Specific budget policies
Related Documents 
Modification History 
4.1.1 Budget overview 
QUT, as a  statutory authority established under the Queensland  University of Technology Act 1998, is required to undertake planning,  budgeting and reporting in accordance with the following legislation:
  the Financial Accountability Act 2009 (Qld), and
  the Financial and Performance Management  Standard 2009.
The  University prepares and manages its budget in conjunction with the annual  strategic planning process (A/2.2). The budget is based on estimates provided by  each responsibility centre and its purpose is to deliver the approved plans of  faculties, divisions and institutes. Detailed accrual budgets are prepared as  five distinct programs:
  Operating - revenue and expenditure of all units relating to teaching, support activities and central overhead commitments
  Research and External Services - research training and institutional grants schemes, research infrastructure (derived either from central allocations out of operating funds or from external sources) and external revenue for specific research, consulting, testing or continuing education projects
  Asset Management - the major building program, maintenance programs, University minor works, IT infrastructure program and library resource allocation
  Business Operations - the QUT International College fee-paying students program, and other user pays services such as parking, catering and Bookshop
  Central Financing - central financing receipting and distribution.
A  detailed definition of each of the above programs is provided in the  University's Financial Management  Practice and Procedures Manual.
Program  budgeting enables the University to monitor the source and application of funds  provided from Australian and Queensland Government Departments (eg Department  of Education, Employment and Workplace Relations), international and domestic fee-paying students, external service activities and commercial-like  operations.
Top 
4.1.2 Integration  of strategic planning and budget management 
The  University's Strategic Planning Package and the Budget Package are released in  the second half of each year. The Vice-Chancellor and Executive Director,  Finance and Resource Planning meet with each organisational area to discuss plans for the future three years.  Organisational areas then develop their triennial budgets based on their  plans and discussions from these strategic planning meetings.
Top 
4.1.3 Roles and responsibilities 
The  Division of Finance and Resource Planning is responsible for collating budgets  received from faculties and divisions and for preparing the final  University-wide budget in November each year.
Planning  and Resources Committee is responsible for considering strategic budget issues, approving the budget framework, and endorsing the University&rsquo;s budget.
Council  is responsible for approving the University&rsquo;s budget. 
Top 
4.1.4 Budget  cycle 
QUT's  financial year is based on a calendar year, and the budget for the University  is set within this time frame. The annual budget is developed on a triennial  basis incorporating anticipated revenue and expenditure for all activities of  the organisation that have financial implications. The University's budget for  the following year is completed by November each year and approved by Council  at its December meeting.
Triennial  budgeting allows strategic analysis and decision making to be undertaken as  part of the University's budget process. The first year of the triennial budget  is a detailed operational financial plan with the two out-years developed at a  strategic level.
The  budget is an integral part of the University's planning process (A/2.2) and is achieved through the steps described  below.
Step 1 -  Development of Finance and Infrastructure Plan (First half Yr0)
Step 2 -  Development of budget package (Second half Yr0)
Step 3 -  Development of draft programs and faculty / division / institute budgets (Second  half Yr0)
Step 4 -  Budget signed off with Vice-Chancellor (Second half Yr0)
Step 5 -  Budget endorsed by Planning and Resources Committee and approved by Council (End  Yr0)
****  Subsequent steps apply to the first year of the triennial budget ****
Step 6 - First  half year reforecast (First half Yr1)
Step 7 - Second  half year reforecast (Second half Yr1)
Step 8 -  End of Year Financial Reporting (First half Yr2)
Top 
4.1.5 Corporate  level budget development 
In  preparing corporate budget projections for inclusion within the University's  Budget Package, the Division of Finance and Resource Planning is required to:
  determine the internal distribution of Commonwealth grant funding for both teaching and research grants;
  estimate revenue from fee-paying students and other income sources;
  identify existing and new strategic initiative funding; and
  review funding levels for University-wide overheads.
The  development of the budget at the corporate level is detailed in the Financial Management  Practice and Procedures Manual. 
Top 
4.1.6 Load managment and funding implications 
Student  load (EFTSL) projections underpin the internal distribution of Commonwealth  grant funding for both teaching and research, along with the projections of  income from fee-paying students, for the purpose of developing the University's  budget at the corporate level.
QUT  and the Australian Government enter into a three-year Funding Agreement, which  outlines EFTSL by funding cluster and other arrangements for funding under the  Commonwealth Grants Scheme. EFTSL is calculated for all  academic organisational units. This is combined with load projections from  other funding sources (international students, domestic fee-paying students  etc) to gain a total load picture for the academic organisational unit and faculty.
Top 
4.1.7 Budget development and approval 
Budget  development
As part  of the strategic planning and budgeting process (A/2.2) faculties, divisions and institutes prepare and submit, for detailed review, their proposed annual teaching program budget, along with research-related budget submissions, for the coming financial year  and two out-years.
The  Division of Finance and Resource Planning liaises with the sponsors of the  other budget programs to support budget development within the specified timeframes. Upon completion, all budget programs are consolidated into the University's 'consolidated budget' for the triennium.
Budget approval
From a  management perspective budget approval authority lies with:
  Specific levels of management within organisational units who have authority to approve draft budgets throughout the budget development process.
  Executive deans of faculty / heads of division / institute directors who will review and approve their proposed budget prior to submission to the Planning and Budget Department ,  Division of Finance and Resource Planning.
  The Executive Director, Division of Finance and Resource Planning, who is charged with consolidating the budget at the corporate level. 
Written  approval from the Vice-Chancellor is required for budget transfers from the  central contingencies to the Division of Finance and Resource Planning.
The  University's consolidated budget is submitted through Vice-Chancellor's  Advisory Committee to Planning and Resources Committee for review and  endorsement, prior to formal submission to QUT Council for approval.
Top 
4.1.8 Budget  reforecasting 
In the  first half and second half of each  budget cycle the University will undertake a complete review of its financial  performance against the first year of the approved budget. This review is of  all budget programs, with the budget to be reforecast to reflect the  anticipated outcome for the year. The purpose of this review of annual revenue  and expenditure estimates is to make appropriate adjustments for material  movements in performance, which result in a major increase or decrease to the  overall estimated financial position of the program or activity.
In  addition, faculties, divisions and institutes will undertake a formal review of  their Operating Program and Faculty Funded Research budget forecasts in the  first half and second half of each year. The reforecasting process will involve  negotiations between faculties / divisions / institutes and the Division of  Finance and Resource Planning regarding budget increases / decreases in revenue  estimates, along with material movements in anticipated expenditure performance. Any budget adjustments will occur prior to the end of the first  half and end of the second half of the year respectively.
The  Division of Finance and Resource Planning will liaise with the sponsors of the  other budget programs to incorporate changes in revenue and expenditure performance.
Top 
4.1.9 Budget reporting 
Under the Financial and Performance Management Standard 2009, QUT is required to  report on its budget at least once every three months. The University's budget  reporting includes:
  Submission of Annual Budget 
  First half reforecast report
  Second half reforecast report
  Financial Outcome Report. 
Monthly  management reports are also prepared by the Division of Finance and Resource Planning for submission to Vice-Chancellor's Advisory Committee and Planning and Resources Committee.
Top 
4.1.10 Budget  adjustments 
Allowable  budget adjustments fall within the following three categories:
a)	Material Budget Adjustments 
These adjustments represent significant movement in revenue and expenditure  forecasts, which impact on the bottom line of the organisational area and/or  budget program. These adjustments are allowed at budget reforecast time only  and are subject to negotiation between the Division of Finance and Resource  Planning and the relevant area.
b)	Non-material Adjustments 
These adjustments are budget neutral as they have a nil impact on the bottom  line of the organisational area and/or budget program. These adjustments are  allowed between the months of January and December. 
c)	Allocations to Internal/Collaborative Projects 
At budget development time organisational areas are required to identify  faculty / division / institute internally funded initiatives within the  Operating Program. The allocation of these funds to individual projects is  allowed between the months of January and December.
Further  details are provided in the Financial Management  Practice and Procedures Manual.
Top 
4.1.11 Specific  budget policies 
The Financial Management Practice and Procedures Manual details specific budget policies for application  within QUT, including:
  Accrual Budgeting 
  Administration Cost Recovery
  Asset Management Program Recovery
  Asset Management Plan - Capital Program Drawdown Facility
  Capital Project Budget Approval
  Capital Budgets
  Australian Government Support and HECS-HELP Funding
  Cost Attribution Policy for Research Training Scheme (RTS) and Institutional Grants Scheme (IGS)
  Devolved Overheads
  Internal Transactions
  International College Fee Revenue
  Long Service Leave 
  Performance Pool
  Retained Funds
  User Charging
Top 
Related Documents
MOPP A/2.2 University Planning Framework
MOPP B/3.1 Staff planning
Top 
Modification History 
Date
Sections
Source
Details
  27.04.10
   All
   Executive Director, Finance and Resource Planning
  Revised policy (including references to revised  Financial Management Practice and Procedures Manual and revised budget  reforecast process)
06.09.05
All
Executive Director, Finance and Resource Planning
Policy updated (including references to revised Financial Management Practice
        and Procedures Manual - now incorporates former Budget Policy and Procedures Manual)
02.03.05
All
Executive Director, Finance and Resource Planning
Updated following review of University budget processes and to ensure consistency
        with Budget Policy and Procedures Manual
06.07.04
All
Acting Director, Financial Services
Editorial amendments (including updated list of specific budget policies)
13.12.01
All
Executive Director, Finance and Resource Planning
Revised policy
Top 
    Chapter A | Chapter B | Chapter C | Chapter D | Chapter E | Chapter F | Chapter G | Chapter H | Chapter I | Appendices | Protocol for MOPP Policy | Recent Updates
    QUT Home | MOPP Home
    CRICOS No. 00213J
    Privacy | Copyright | Accessibility
    Last modified 13-May-2010
    Contact us | Feedback | Disclaimer
