QUT | MOPP | G/5.5 Travel policy
            QUT&nbsp;Home
          Contact&nbsp;us
          Search
      MOPP Home
      Protocol for MOPP Policy
      Recent Updates
      G/5.5 Travel policy
Chapters
A - Governance/Organisation
B - Human Resources
C - Learning/Teaching
D - Research/Development
E - Student Administration
F - Information Management
G - Financial Management
H - Physical Facilities
I - International/Community
MOPP Appendices
MOPP Protocol
MOPP Updates
[Print-friendly version]
Contact OfficerDirector, Corporate Finance, Finance and Resource Planning 
Approval Date19/06/2008 
Approval AuthorityVice-Chancellor 
Date of Next Review01/06/2011 
5.5.1 Air travel 
5.5.2 Other transport 
5.5.3 Travel costs to be paid by staff 
5.5.4 Expenses other than fares 
5.5.5 Overseas travel 
5.5.6 Accompanying persons' travel expenses 
Modification History 
Travel for University purposes should be undertaken as economically as possible
  consistent with efficiency. This, together with the principle of integrity,
  is reinforced by the 
QUT
  Code of Conduct
which places a clear obligation on all staff to
  exercise their position of trust on legitimate University travel only. The
  Corporate Finance Director is responsible for ensuring that this policy is
  met through appropriate operating procedures, which are set out in the 
Financial
Management Practice and Procedures Manual
Chapter 3.
Official travel within Australia by members of the University is approved
  prior to travel by the head of the school or equivalent relevant responsibility
  centre. For official travel outside Australia , the prior approval of the relevant
  executive dean of faculty / head of division is required (see 
Appendix
  3).
QUT provides automatic insurance cover up to defined units for all staff travelling
  overseas on University business. Refer to 
Financial
  Management Practice and Procedures Manual
Chapter 3 for details.
Personnel travelling on official business are required to make bookings through
  the University's appointed travel service providers. Travellers should contact
  one of the 
Panel
  of Travel Service Providers
and discuss their travel requirements.
  A quote and itinerary should be obtained. Confirmation of booking and payment
  should be organised by QUT administration staff using either QUT Corporate
  Card for simple domestic and international travel transactions or by a QUT
  requisition / order for more complex requirements.
Top
5.5.1 Air travel 
Classes of travel on normal commercial airline services for members of the
  University travelling on official business, and for Council members required
to undertake regular air travel to attend Council meetings, are as follows:
Business Class
Vice-Chancellor
Deputy Vice-Chancellor (Academic)
Deputy Vice-Chancellor (Learning and Teaching)
Deputy Vice-Chancellor (Technology, Information and Learning Support)
Deputy Vice-Chancellor (Research and Commercialisation)
Deputy Vice-Chancellor (International and Development)
Executive Director, Finance and Resource Planning
Executive Deans
Registrar
Council members
Economy Class
All other members of the University
Heads of school are permitted upgrades to business class air travel provided
  that such upgrades are restricted to overseas travel and that the additional
  costs of upgrades are entirely met from surplus accounts only.
When a member of the University who is entitled to a higher class of travel
  is accompanied by another not so entitled, both may travel at the higher class.
The Corporate Finance Director may approve, in advance of the travel, the
  use of air charter where necessary.
Frequent Flyer scheme
QUT staff are permitted to use for private purposes any Frequent Flyer points
  accumulated through travel on University business. However, QUT will not normally
  pay for membership of Frequent Flyer Schemes.
The Travel Service Providers will record Frequent Flyer transactions (where
  nominated) in the Traveller's Profile.
Top 
5.5.2 Other transport 
Travel other than by air should involve the most economical commercial service available. In cases
  where the most efficient and economical means is either a University vehicle or, with the owner's agreement,
  a member's private vehicle, these means should be used. For use of a member's private vehicle, the
  member is paid an allowance at a rate determined from time to time by the Human Resources Director
  (see section 
H/7.1.11
for
  further information and 
B/7.3
for
current rates).
Taxis
The use of taxis on official University business is permitted when no University vehicle is available
  or when such use is more economical.
QUT maintains an agreement with Cabcharge Australia Pty Ltd for the provision
  of taxi eTickets across Australia . Responsibility centres will be debited
  with the cost of all travel incurred on eTickets assigned to them (refer to 
Financial
Management Practice and Procedures Manual
, Chapter 3(C)).
Reimbursement of taxi charges made directly by a staff member during business
  related travel may be claimed upon reconciliation of the staff member's travel
  expenses (refer to 
Financial
  Management Practice and Procedures Manual, Chapters 3(C) and
  3(I)).
Top 
5.5.3 Travel costs to be paid by staff 
When a staff member is absent for a single period, including
weekends, which encompasses business and private purposes and
travel costs are incurred by the University, the staff member
will normally pay 50% of the travel costs (normally 50% of
airfares charged to QUT) when absence for private purposes is 50%
or more of the total period of absence.
In certain cases, where the dominant purpose of the travel is for business, 
  and the absence for private purposes exceeds the absence for business travel, 
  application may be made to the Corporate Finance Director for exemption from 
  the above charge.
Top 
5.5.4 Expenses other than fares 
QUT meets reasonable costs of accommodation and meals as well as out of pocket expenses (eg taxis)
  when travelling on University business. QUT will meet the actual costs incurred by the staff member
  or pay the staff member a travel allowance at levels determined from time to time by the Human Resources
  Director (see 
B/7.3
for
  current levels and conditions of payment). The Financial Delegate, as defined in MOPP 
Appendix
  3
, will determine
  the method used to compensate the staff member for reasonable costs of accommodation, meals and out
of pocket expenses.
QUT will only reimburse official expenditure (see 
G/5.1.1).
  Personal or private expenditure will not be reimbursed (see 
G/5.2).
For guidelines on entertainment while travelling see 
G/5.6.
Top 
5.5.5 Overseas travel 
The University has adopted a 
protocol
      for staff and students travelling overseas
on University business
and through study programs.
The University's policy on staff and student overseas travel requires that
  all overseas travel decisions are taken in consideration of the risks involved
  and the advice from the Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade (DFAT), (available
  from 
http://www.hrd.qut.edu.au/healthsafety/oncampus/travel.jsp).
Prior approval of overseas travel
Prior approval of the executive dean of faculty or head of division must be
  obtained for overseas travel by completion of the 
Staff
  Overseas Travel Application Form (SOTAF),
regardless of who is
  funding the travel. Details to be provided in the SOTAF are to include the
  name of the person travelling, purpose of travel, duration of travel, funding
  source(s), destination(s), associated recreation or other leave, and proposed
  costs to QUT. Details of other potentially interested business units in QUT
  that were consulted should also be included, to avoid unnecessary duplication
  of travel and reduce the number of staff travelling.
Medical and Security Risk Management
The University has engaged International SOS to provide medical and security
  risk management services for staff travelling overseas. The effectiveness of
  International SOS in providing these services relies on the use of the University's 
Travel
  Service Providers
when booking flights and accommodation for
  overseas travel.
Staff members should contact International SOS for any medical or security
  related emergencies. For more information refer to 
Security
  and Travel Information for Overseas Travel
Top 
5.5.6 Accompanying persons' travel expenses 
Where a member of the University is accompanied on official travel, the University will not normally
  pay for any of the accompanying person's travel expenses. However, in exceptional circumstances
  and if it can be demonstrated that there is a benefit to the University, the Vice-Chancellor (or Chancellor
  as appropriate) may approve travel expenses for a person accompanying the Chancellor, the Vice-Chancellor,
  or a senior staff member at the level of SSG6. In these circumstances, use of frequent flyer points
  or appropriate airline rebate scheme to cover the airfares of the accompanying person is encouraged.
Top 
Modification History 
Date
Sections
Source
Details
  11.02.11
  All
  Governance Services
  Revised terms of reference due to position title change from Deputy Vice-Chancellor (Teaching Quality) to Deputy Vice-Chancellor (Learning and Teaching)
  19.06.08
  All
  Acting Executive Director, Finance and Resource Planning
  Policy reviewed &ndash; no change required
  28.02.08
  G/5.5.1
  Vice-Chancellor
  Revised to include new position of Deputy  Vice-Chancellor (Teaching Quality)
23.08.06
G/5.5, G/5.5.1, G/5.5.5
Acting Vice-Chancellor
Revised policy to include details of medical and security risk management services
 relating to overseas travel (endorsed by Vice-Chancellor's Advisory Committee
 05.07.06)
12.07.06
G/5.5.2
Executive Director, Finance and Resource Planning
Revised procedure relating to taxi charges (Cabcharge vouchers replaced
        by eTickets from 01.08.06)
31.03.06
G/5.5.6
Vice-Chancellor
Revised policy
08.04.05
G/5.5.1
Vice-Chancellor
Revised policy relating to air travel for Council members (endorsed by Chancellor's
        Committee 09.03.05)
08.04.05
G/5.5.5
Vice-Chancellor
Updated process relating to approval of overseas travel
27.05.04
G/5.5.4
Client Services Manager, Financial Services Department
Editorial amendment to reflect policy changes relating to personal and private
        expenditure (as per G/5.2)
06.02.04
G/5.5.5
Acting Financial Services Director
Revised to include process for prior approval of overseas travel (in accordance
        with requirements of Internal Audit Recommendation 5.1.1)
11.12.03
G/5.5.1, G/5.5.5
Acting Financial Services Director
Revised to include details of preferred Travel Service Providers and information
        on risk advice relating to overseas travel.
28.08.03
G/5.5.1
Vice-Chancellor
Revised policy on air travel for senior staff members
06.12.02
G/5.5.5
Vice-Chancellor
Approved protocol for overseas travel
05.09.02
G/5.5, G/5.5.1, G/5.5.4
Financial Services Director
Revised in accordance with internal audit requirements
30.10.01
G/5.5.4
Accounting Services Director
Revised to reflect current practice
24.09.01
G/5.5
Vice-Chancellor
Revised policy re reporting on overseas travel
05.07.01
G/5.5.1
Vice-Chancellor
Revised policy
24.05.99
G/5.5
Finance Manager
Updated
27.08.98
G/5.5
University Executive
Revised policy
Top 
    Chapter A | Chapter B | Chapter C | Chapter D | Chapter E | Chapter F | Chapter G | Chapter H | Chapter I | Appendices | Protocol for MOPP Policy | Recent Updates
    QUT Home | MOPP Home
    CRICOS No. 00213J
    Privacy | Copyright | Accessibility
    Last modified 10-Feb-2011
    Contact us | Feedback | Disclaimer
