QUT | MOPP | G/5.6 Hospitality and catering policy
            QUT&nbsp;Home
          Contact&nbsp;us
          Search
      MOPP Home
      Protocol for MOPP Policy
      Recent Updates
      G/5.6 Hospitality and catering policy
Chapters
A - Governance/Organisation
B - Human Resources
C - Learning/Teaching
D - Research/Development
E - Student Administration
F - Information Management
G - Financial Management
H - Physical Facilities
I - International/Community
MOPP Appendices
MOPP Protocol
MOPP Updates
[Print-friendly version]
Contact OfficerDirector, Corporate Finance, Finance and Resource Planning 
Approval Date19/06/2008 
Approval AuthorityExecutive Director, Finance and Resource Planning 
Date of Next Review01/06/2011 
5.6.1 Policy 
5.6.2 Policy guidelines 
Related Documents 
Modification History 
5.6.1 Policy 
QUT recognises that there are circumstances where the provision of hospitality is appropriate and
  can result in significant benefits for the University. As the University is a partially publicly funded
  body, it must ensure that public sector standards of accountability for hospitality and catering expenditure
  are maintained. The University is also obliged to identify principles and provide clarification of
  reasonable practice relating to hospitality and catering expenditure particularly as it relates to
the nexus between these activities and the business undertakings of the University.
Hospitality may be extended to representatives of the press and other media, to representatives of
    government, business or industry, trade unions and recognised community organisations.
In certain cases, it may be appropriate periodically to provide hospitality to individuals of particular
  importance to the University.
This policy does not apply to functions organised on behalf of external parties that are on a full
  cost recovery basis.
Full details of procedures for approval and reimbursement of expenses are contained in the 
Financial
    Management Practice and Procedures Manual
Chapter 3.
This policy augments the Schedule of Authorities and Delegations (
Appendix
    3
) by identifying those delegates who may approve hospitality related expenditure.
Top 
5.6.2 Policy guidelines 
Expenditure on hospitality and catering must be for official purposes, must not be excessive, and
  should be able to withstand public scrutiny. All hospitality expenditure must be incurred for a specific
  outcome that can be demonstrated to be of benefit to the University. These outcomes should be documented
at the time of approval.
Appropriate documentation to substantiate expenditure for hospitality and catering functions (and for
Fringe Benefits Tax purposes) must be maintained.
Written approval should where practicable be obtained prior to the incurrence of all expenditure and
for substantiation purposes. Where expenditure is to be incurred on events which can be classified as
official functions and gatherings (eg large gatherings of staff and other guests), it is strongly recommended
that prior written approval be obtained before the expenditure is incurred. In all cases, the financial
delegate approving expenditure must be satisfied that the expenditure incurred, or to be incurred, is
in relation to official duties, is reasonable and is publicly defensible.
Reimbursement claims for hospitality related expenditure must also comply with the University's
policy on personal and private expenditure (
G/5.2
namely that "Under no circumstances, should a financial delegate approve reimbursement claims for
themselves. All reimbursements must be approved by the University officer's immediate superior, or a
higher position if necessary and in accordance with relevant University policies and procedures." Refer
also to the 
Financial Management
Practice and Procedures Manual
Chapter 3(I) -  Reimbursements.
(a) Limits on hospitality
(i) Official functions involving formal dining:
Expenditure associated with business related hospitality and official functions involving formal dining
  can be approved by the following delegates:
Delegate
Limit (includes GST but excludes FBT)
Head of school / department / independent section
Up to $75 per head
Deputy Vice-Chancellor / head of division / executive dean of faculty
In excess of $75 per head*
*While it is recognised that the cost of hospitality varies appreciably depending upon the venue and
  the nature of the function, there is an obligation to ensure that expenditure is not excessive. In
  this respect, the costs (per head per occasion) should be restricted to a reasonable level and alcohol
  consumption in particular should not be excessive.
Expenses in excess of this limit may be approved by Deputy Vice-Chancellors, heads of division and
  executive deans of faculty, subject to the justification for the level of expenditure being appropriately
  documented. Circumstances where a cost in excess of this threshold would be appropriate include:
Reciprocation of the level of hospitality provided by international visitors who previously hosted
    relevant QUT staff members overseas;
Business luncheons where the per head costs include other appropriate expenses such as a contribution
    to a public speaking engagement (eg Business Leaders Forum).
(ii) Functions celebrating staff achievements, reward and recognition, and other in-house social events:
The limits in section (a)(i) above relate to hospitality and official functions, generally involving
    formal dining (ie "sit-down"  meals) along with modest and publicly defensible refreshment
  expenditure.
For events involving finger food and drinks (such as staff end-of-year functions and reward and recognition
  functions), the expenditure per head at these functions should be considerably less than the limits
  referred to in section (a)(i) above and generally no more than $30 per head (GST inclusive). These
  events require the approval of the head of school / department / independent section. Any expenditure
  in excess of this amount should be approved by the Deputy Vice-Chancellor, executive dean of faculty
  or head of division.
As a general rule, the frequency of in-house staff functions paid for by the University should be limited
  to a reasonable level in support of University business and staff recognition and reward arrangements.
  However, staff are free to arrange and fund social events with their personal funds.
(b) Approved purposes
Expenditure for hospitality and official functions may be incurred where it is considered appropriate
  to facilitate the conduct of University business through persons who are able to do so, by advice or
  because of their vocation or business interest. However, such hospitality and catering should not be
  a substitute for regular or ongoing business meetings or for events such as normal gatherings of staff
  to discuss University business.
Expenses associated with hospitality and catering functions include expenditure required for domestic
  and overseas visitors (where the University has an interest in, or a specific obligation towards, facilitating
  the visit) and expenditure for representatives of government, business, industry, and recognised community
  organisations.
(c) Stocks of alcohol
Stocked liquor cabinets for small-scale entertainment may be maintained on the basis that they are
  provided primarily for the purpose of offering hospitality to external clients, and as a general rule
  not to be used for functions exclusively involving University staff.
Executive deans of faculty / heads of division and above would normally have access to appropriate
  office bar fridges. Additional bar fridges would require approval from the relevant executive dean
  of faculty or head of division.
Note: This approval does not apply to centrally managed liquor cabinets for functions run by QUT Council
  and its subordinate committees.
(d) Attendance of University staff at official functions (including student focused events)
The number of staff attending official functions should be limited to those with a direct involvement
  in the business being conducted, ie only those who will be able to advance the University's business
  should be in attendance.
Generally, the number of staff attending should comprise a minor or balanced proportion to external
  representatives. Expenditure should not be incurred for attendance of officers' partners, unless approved
  by the Vice-Chancellor.
(e) Working meals
The costs of morning and afternoon teas and working lunches of a moderate nature and consisting
  of finger food only (eg sandwiches) are not classed as official hospitality and are not subject to
  the procedural requirements of this policy. The University's definition of hospitality and official
  functions is based on the definition of Entertainment Expenditure contained in the 
Income
  Tax Assessment Act 1997 (s.32-10)
and related guidelines.
(f) Tipping
The University will not meet the costs of tipping, unless in exceptional circumstances or where dictated
  by national custom.
(g) Other expenses
Other types of expenses considered reasonable as official expenditure include:
tea/coffee, morning tea, or similar for official visitors
breakfast/lunch/dinner involving official visitors
light refreshments for internal meetings, conferences, workshops, and seminars
charges for attendance at official functions.
(h) Substantiation requirements
A thorough understanding of the substantiation requirements and procedures surrounding the payment
  of hospitality is essential to ensure that the University is not in breach of taxation regulations
  and therefore risk incurring hefty fines and penalties.
Detailed instructions on substantiation requirements can be found in the 
Financial
    Management Practice and Procedures Manual
on the Financial Services website.
Top 
Related Documents 
G/5.1 Expenditure of University funds
G/5.2 Personal and private expenditure
MOPP Appendix 3 Schedule of Authorities and Delegations
Top 
Modification History 
Date
Sections
Source
Details
  19.06.08
  All
  Acting Executive Director, Finance and Resource Planning
  Policy reviewed &ndash; no change required
06.04.06
All
Executive Director, Finance and Resource Planning
Revised policy to ensure compliance with audit requirements (endorsed by Vice-Chancellor's
        Advisory Committee 22.02.06)
06.09.05
All
Executive Director, Finance and Resource Planning
Policy reviewed (no change required)
25.05.04
All
Executive Director, Finance and Resource Planning
Revised policy to ensure compliance with statutory and audit requirements (endorsed
        by Vice-Chancellor's Advisory Committee 20.05.04)
21.11.02
G/5.6.1
Financial Services Director
Revised policy in accordance with audit requirements
10.11.98
G/5.6.2
Finance and Facilities Department
Revised authority for the approval of hospitality expenditure
Top 
    Chapter A | Chapter B | Chapter C | Chapter D | Chapter E | Chapter F | Chapter G | Chapter H | Chapter I | Appendices | Protocol for MOPP Policy | Recent Updates
    QUT Home | MOPP Home
    CRICOS No. 00213J
    Privacy | Copyright | Accessibility
    Last modified 13-May-2010
    Contact us | Feedback | Disclaimer
