QUT | MOPP | G/5.3 Purchasing
            QUT&nbsp;Home
          Contact&nbsp;us
          Search
      MOPP Home
      Protocol for MOPP Policy
      Recent Updates
      G/5.3 Purchasing
Chapters
A - Governance/Organisation
B - Human Resources
C - Learning/Teaching
D - Research/Development
E - Student Administration
F - Information Management
G - Financial Management
H - Physical Facilities
I - International/Community
MOPP Appendices
MOPP Protocol
MOPP Updates
[Print-friendly version]
Contact OfficerDirector, Corporate Finance, Finance and Resource Planning 
Approval Date02/11/2010 
Approval AuthorityExecutive Director, Finance and Resource Planning 
Date of Next Review01/11/2013 
5.3.1 Policy statement 
5.3.2 Application
5.3.3 Roles and responsibilities 
5.3.4 Objectives 
5.3.5 Principles of sustainable procurement
5.3.6 Procurement strategic planning
5.3.7 Procurement approach
5.3.8 Procurement methods
Modification History 
5.3.1 Policy statement 
The QUT Purchasing Policy  is guided by provisions outlined in
  Financial Accountability Act 2009
  Financial and Performance Management Standard 2009
  Public Sector Ethics Act 1994
  Queensland Government State Procurement  Policy 2010
  Australian New Zealand Government Procurement Agreement.
Top 
5.3.2 Application 
This policy applies to  the acquisition and supply of all goods and services, including contractors and  consultants, to QUT. 
Top 
5.3.3 Roles and responsibilities 
Authority  and approvals
Procurement within the University is primarily  decentralised. Faculties, institutes and divisions are responsible for their  individual purchasing requirements, and are guided by University-wide  procurement policies and procedures, which are administered by Corporate  Finance. Staff must  not enter into any financial commitment unless funds are available and the  appropriate approval obtained. The specific financial management authorities  and delegations are included in the MOPP Schedule of  Authorities and Delegations (Appendix 3). Internal controls are implemented through the  separation of purchasing authorities from  payment functions.
Training
QUT has  identified four levels of purchasing involvement. Each has a requirement of a  particular level of skill and or training which staff are required to possess  prior to undertaking associated purchasing tasks. 
The  minimum requirements are listed in the Financial  Management Practices and Procedures Manual (chapter 4). It is the  responsibility of each organisational area to ensure that purchasing staff have  the appropriate level of training or equivalent experience for their level of  purchasing involvement.
Top 
5.3.4 Objectives
Advance  Government priorities 
QUT will seek to advance  Queensland Government ambitions and targets, focused on improving Queensland's  economy, community and environment. This includes ensuring that competitive local  suppliers are given a full, fair and reasonable opportunity to supply the  University.
Achieve  value for money
QUT will seek to achieve  value for money in all its purchasing. Value  for money is the optimum combination of quality, performance and price across  the life of the goods or service. Decisions should not be made on lowest cost alone. 
Ensure  probity and accountability for outcomes
QUT will conduct its purchasing  activities with probity and in accordance with relevant legislation. Employees must comply with the  following four principles
  Fairness and impartiality
  Transparency of process
  Confidentiality and security of information and materials
  Effective management of conflicts of interest. 
An independent probity  auditor or advisor must be engaged for goods and services procurements above  $10 million, and for construction procurements above $100 million. The  engagement of the Probity Auditor will be coordinated by the Audit and Risk  Management Services.
  Basic details of all  awarded contracts and standing offer arrangements with a value of $10,000 and greater,  over the initial term of the contract, must be published on the Queensland  Government Chief Procurement Office's eTender website within 60 days of the  contract being awarded. Additional details will be required for those with a  value of $10 million and over. 
Integrate  sustainability principles
QUT  will assess the economic, social and environmental impacts of the supply of  goods and services. Through purchasing, QUT will actively influence sustainable  development by preferencing  businesses and industries that demonstrate sustainability. 
 Handling  Complaints
The University is  required to have in place a central point of contact for suppliers unable to  find resolution of complaints within the relevant faculty or division. Concerns of this nature should be formally  addressed in writing to the Procurement Manager, Finance and Resource Planning  Division. The process for handling  complaints will follow guidelines set out in the Queensland Government Chief  Procurement Office Complaints Management document. 
Top
5.3.5 Principles of sustainable procurement 
All procurement  decisions should be based on the principles of sustainable procurement. 
Sustainable procurement is the process of acquiring  goods and services that
  Meet the users'  needs (functional, fit for purpose)
  Deliver long  term 'value for money' by considering whole-of-life costs
  Maximise social  and economic benefits
  Minimise damage  to the environment and health. 
Top 
5.3.6 Procurement strategic planning
Faculties, Institutes  and Divisions are responsible for providing information on planned significant  purchases through the strategic planning process which links to the QUT  Blueprint. 
  Corporate Finance is  responsible for reviewing and preparing QUT's Corporate Procurement Plan which  links the University's procurement to its institutional plan. QUT's Corporate Procurement Plan is reviewed  annually and prepared on a triennial basis.  The Plan outlines QUT's procurement approach and strategies, and  provides information on QUT's procurement profile, planned significant  purchases and forward procurement schedule. 
The forward procurement  schedule must be published and maintained on the Queensland Government Chief  Procurement Office website (eTender) by Strategic Procurement.
Top 
5.3.7 Procurement approach
The principles and  objectives of this policy are supported by the Financial Management Practice  and Procedures Manual (Chapter 4 - Expenditure  - Purchasing). The acquisition and supply of all goods and services to QUT must  comply with these procedures. 
The purchasing approach  to be undertaken when acquiring goods or services will be dependent upon the  value and risk associated with the purchase. The financial delegates outlined  below are to be used only as a guide. Approval must be obtained in accordance  with the MOPP Appendix 3 (Schedule of Authorities  and Delegations). Purchases that are of high risk to QUT due to difficulty of  supply or significant sustainability impacts require a Planned Procurement  Approach irrespective of value. 
    Value of Purchase
    Procurement Approach
    Method
    $5,000 and below
    One quote 
    One quotation is    obtained (QUT Corporate Card is the preferred method of payment)
    $5,001 to $20,000 
    Two    quotes 
    Invite    at least two suppliers to submit offers for supply of the requirement or use Planned Procurement Approach
    $20,001 to $100,000
    Three    quotes 
    Issue    written invitations to offer to at least three genuine suppliers, requesting    written responses or use Planned    Procurement Approach
    $100,001 and above
    Planned    Procurement Approach 
    A Planned Procurement Approach is to    be undertaken.
To ensure that the  rationale for any purchasing decision is transparent and auditable, appropriate  documentation must be maintained. 
Health and Safety Considerations
  All  goods and services purchased by the University must be safe for use by staff  and students and comply with the Queensland Workplace Health and  Safety Act 1995 and relevant standards. Purchasers must consider if  there are any health and safety requirements associated with the purchase. 
  Engagement and Use of Consultants
A  consultant is an organisation or individual contracted to perform a specific  task and to provide specific expert advice as an independent contractor by  exercising his or her own skill and judgment, where the University does not  exercise detailed control over the work performed.&nbsp; Detailed procedures when engaging a  consultant can be found in the Financial  Management Practice and Procedures Manual (Chapter 4).  Responsibility Centres must comply with this policy when engaging consultants. 
Top 
5.3.8 Procurement methods
The value and nature of the purchase guides the best  purchase to payment method. 
Petty Cash
Whilst the preferred method  of payment for all purchases under $5000 is by Corporate Card, where a vendor  does not accept Corporate Card, purchases of individual items under $100, can  be made  using Petty Cash. Faculties and divisions  may establish a Petty Cash Float, to be managed by a suitably trained Finance  Officer, for the reimbursement of low value miscellaneous expenses. 
Procedures for the establishment, use and  reconciliation of Petty Cash Floats are detailed in the Financial Management Practice and Procedures Manual (Chapter 2). 
Corporate  Card
Corporate  cards are to be used for one off low value transactions under $5000 (excluding  GST). The Financial Management Practices and Procedures Manual (Chapter 4(B) -  Corporate Card) outlines the procedures to be followed when using the Corporate  Card. 
Purchase Orders
For purchases greater  than $5000 or single source low value re-occurring purchases, a purchase order  is required to be raised within the Oracle Financial System. It is essential that the purchase order is  only issued once the quotation and tender requirements have been met. All  executed contracts must have a covering purchase order raised. Once a contract has been executed a purchase  order must be raised for the total value of the contract to facilitate the  matching of invoices and facilitate commitment and encumbrance reporting.
Top 
Modification History 
Date
Sections
Source
Details
  11.11.10
  All
  Director, Corporate Finance
  Policy revised to incorporate sustainable procurement  principles; new corporate procurement planning procedures; new financial  threshold; and Health and Safety considerations.
  12.07.10
  G/5.3.3
  Executive Director,    Finance and Resource Planning
  Revised changes in accordance with changes to Chemical management policy (A/9.8)
  19.06.08
  All
  Acting Executive Director,    Finance and Resource Planning
  Policy reviewed - no change    required
  17.06.08
  All
  Director, Corporate Finance
  Updated in accordance with  revised legislation (State Purchasing Policy 2000 replaced by State Procurement  Policy 2008)
24.07.06
G/5.3.5
Executive Director, Finance and Resource Planning
New policy relating to software acquisition (endorsed by Information
        Technology Advisory Committee 13.09.05)
06.09.05
G/5.3, G/5.3.1, G/5.3.2
Executive Director, Finance and Resource Planning
Revised policy
14.10.03
G/5.3.4
Acting Director, Financial Services
New policy to ensure compliance with relevant Queensland Government legislation
        and best practice.
06.06.03
G/5.3.3
Acting Director, Financial Services
New policy to regulate acquisition of chemicals (in line with chemical management
        policy A/9.8)
03.02.03
G/5.3.1
Acting Director, Financial Services
Revised policy to reflect new purchasing arrangements effective from 20.12.02
21.06.02
G/5.3.1
Director, Accounting Services
Revised policy to reflect increase in Corporate Credit Card limit
14.06.01
G/5.3 G/5.3.1
Director, Accounting Services
Updated to reflect new State Purchasing Policy
08.05.00
G/5.3.1 G/5.3.2
Accounting and Business Services Director
Revised policy (in accordance with GST substantiation requirements)
24.05.99
G/5.3
Finance Manager
Updated
Top 
    Chapter A | Chapter B | Chapter C | Chapter D | Chapter E | Chapter F | Chapter G | Chapter H | Chapter I | Appendices | Protocol for MOPP Policy | Recent Updates
    QUT Home | MOPP Home
    CRICOS No. 00213J
    Privacy | Copyright | Accessibility
    Last modified 11-Nov-2010
    Contact us | Feedback | Disclaimer
