QUT | MOPP | G/7.1 Goods and Services Tax (GST)
            QUT&nbsp;Home
          Contact&nbsp;us
          Search
      MOPP Home
      Protocol for MOPP Policy
      Recent Updates
      G/7.1 Goods and Services Tax (GST)
Chapters
A - Governance/Organisation
B - Human Resources
C - Learning/Teaching
D - Research/Development
E - Student Administration
F - Information Management
G - Financial Management
H - Physical Facilities
I - International/Community
MOPP Appendices
MOPP Protocol
MOPP Updates
[Print-friendly version]
Contact OfficerDirector, Corporate Finance, Finance and Resource Planning 
Approval Date19/06/2008 
Approval AuthorityExecutive Director, Finance and Resource Planning 
Date of Next Review01/06/2011 
7.1.1 GST operations 
7.1.2 Australian Business Number (ABN) 
7.1.3 GST and donations 
7.1.4 Risks 
7.1.5 Contracts 
7.1.6 Grants and appropriations 
7.1.7 GST and courses 
7.1.8 Recipient Created Tax Invoices 
Related Documents 
Modification History 
The following information on the operation of the Goods and Services Tax  (GST) is provided as general information only. The legislation is complicated  and wide-ranging, and subject to considerable change. Advice regarding the  effects of GST should be sought from Corporate Finance before entering any new  business undertaking.
Top 
7.1.1 GST operations 
GST is a transaction driven tax and applies when an entity engages in the provision of a taxable supply.
Taxable supplies
A taxable supply has GST included in its price. You make a taxable supply if you are registered or
  required to be registered for GST and:
money or consideration was given for the supply
the supply was made in the course of an enterprise
the supply is connected with Australia .
GST is not included for any part of the supply that is GST-free or input taxed (see below).
Types of transactions
GST supplies fall into three categories:
GST taxable at 10%
GST free (this means that no GST is payable on the supply and the University is entitled
      to an input tax credit for creditable acquisitions obtained to make that supply)
Input taxed (this means that no GST is payable on the supply and the University is
    not entitled to an input tax credit for creditable acquisitions obtained to make that supply).
Transactions within the University, which include the University Bookshop, are outside the scope of
  the GST.
The Cooperative Research Centres with lead sites based at QUT are not part of the University for GST
  purposes.
When a supply occurs
A supply occurs when goods are made available or when services are performed.
Top 
7.1.2 Australian Business Number (ABN) 
QUT's Australian Business Number (ABN) is 83 791 724 622.
Top 
7.1.3 GST and donations 
QUT is registered for GST and has been confirmed as an income tax exempt charitable institution which
  can receive tax deductible gifts. Being a public university, QUT is endorsed as a deductible gift recipient
under Subdivision 30-BA of the 
Income Tax Assessment Act 1997
A gift of cash or in kind made to QUT is GST free provided that it has the characteristics of a gift
  as determined by the Australian Taxation Office. These are as follows:
it is given voluntarily by the donor
there is no 
material benefit 
to the donor provided in return
the gift arises from benefaction and proceeds from the detached and disinterested
    generosity of the donor.
Care needs to be exercised and advice sought where QUT provides a 
supply 
of any kind
  in return for a donation ( 
supply 
for GST purposes is defined in G/7.1.1 above ). An
  accounting report to a donor will not constitute material benefit but a report on the findings of work
  carried out using a cash donation may represent material benefit to the donor rendering the transaction
  subject to GST. The receipt of monies as a gift requires detailed consideration of the legislative
  requirements.
Top 
7.1.4 Risks 
The administration of GST requires the management of a number of risks since GST decisions and treatments
  are required on all transactions that QUT undertakes with its customers and suppliers, as well as most
  (if not all) transactions processed. Heads of responsibility centres must ensure processes are put
in place to minimise these risks.
Risks for QUT include:
Not collecting GST from customers when taxable supplies are made. The legislation
    provides that one eleventh of the sale price comprises the tax and must be remitted to the Australian
    Taxation Office. The risk here is that revenue is reduced.
Charging GST incorrectly when GST free supplies are made. This is illegal.
Overcharging suppliers. Businesses must be diligent in passing through cost savings
    that flow from the new tax system to their customers.
Not being able to claim GST paid on the purchase of goods and services back from the
    Australian Tax Office. A 
tax invoice 
which has specific requirements must be on hand
    before this claim is made. The risk is that legitimate refunds cannot be received. When GST input
    credits cannot be reclaimed, the costs will be charged back to the responsibility centre. Staff are
    encouraged to obtain compliant documentation, including when travelling in Australia , to ensure
    that this does not occur.
Top 
7.1.5 Contracts 
All contracts entered into for the supply of goods or services, including research and consulting
  by the University, must include a provision for the client to pay GST. In-kind contributions made by
  sponsors of research and consulting form part of the consideration for performance of services and
are also subject to GST.
Contract negotiation
It is expected that where QUT is supplying goods or services to Australian resident organisations
  with GST registration, it shall always be possible to facilitate the collection of GST by QUT, in addition
  to the agreed fee for service or contract price. QUT is in a position of being able to render tax invoices
  which will enable or assist the payer in claiming or verifying any input tax credit, set off, rebate
  or refund in relation to the GST payable.
Staff responsible for negotiating contracts should be aware that QUT as a supplier remains liable
  to remit the GST, at 10% of the value of such supplies, to the Australian Taxation Office. Therefore
  an agreement for QUT to absorb the GST payable on any arrangements will only mean that the funds available
  to the relevant activity are reduced by one eleventh.
Top 
7.1.6 Grants and appropriations 
Appropriations, as distinct from grants and contract fees, are not subject to GST. Payments from the
  Department of Education, Science and Training under the 
Higher Education Support Act 2003
are
  appropriations of government funds and are outside the operations of the GST. Unless otherwise confirmed
  in writing by the granting body, grants are not appropriations but are consideration for supplies under
  the GST. This means that one eleventh of the consideration received consists of GST and must be forwarded
  to the Australian Tax Office. Responsibility centres must ensure that granting bodies are increasing
the amount granted to cover the GST so that net grants are not reduced.
Top 
7.1.7 GST and courses 
The definition of GST-free education is narrowly defined in the legislation and does not cover the
entire range of the University's operations.
GST-free courses
The supply of an 'education course' is GST-free. The
  term 'education course'  is defined in the Higher Education Support 
Act
  to include (amongst other things) a tertiary course, or a Masters or Doctoral course, or a tertiary
  residential college course.
A tertiary course means a course of study
  or instruction that is a tertiary course determined by the Education Minister  under
  subsection 5D(1) of the 
Student Assistance Act 1973
for the purposes of that Act;  or
  any other course of study or instruction that the Education Minister has determined is a tertiary course
  for the purposes of the Act.
Foundation,
  ELICOS and bridging courses are also GST-free. Courses such as faculty certificates are GST-free if
  they are made up of subjects that form part of a GST-free course, for example a bachelor's degree in
  the same discipline. Students enrolling for one subject from a GST-free course will be deemed to be
  receiving a GST-free supply.
Taxable supplies of education
Continuing Professional Education courses targeted at specific occupations, for example health professionals,
  are GST taxable. Adult and community education is only GST free where it provides or adds to the employment
  skills of those undertaking the course and is targeted at the general community. Courses with a leisure
  component, such as Study and Travel, are GST taxable.
Mixed supplies
Where GST- free and GST taxable services are supplied together, the components need to be separately
  identified and applicable GST stated clearly.
Top 
7.1.8 Recipient Created Tax Invoices 
From time to time, staff members and responsibility centres may be approached by external organisations
  for which QUT performs a service, to obtain QUT's consent for the external party to raise a Recipient
  Created Tax Invoice. This document is effectively an invoice which acknowledges the supply being made
by QUT and acts as a notice to the other party to remit the agreed fee for service.
This is not a process which QUT wishes to adopt. Except in circumstances where QUT is not aware of
  the amounts to be invoiced (for example, the trade in of a motor vehicle), and/or funds are for distribution
  across a number of projects (for example, ARC Grant income), QUT's approval should be withheld. Should
  scenarios of this type occur, then the responsibility centre administering the funds concerned may
  agree to the issue of a Recipient Created Tax Invoice by the other party provided that the responsibility
  centre concerned accepts full responsibility for ensuring that the external party is able to issue
  Recipient Created Tax Invoices and securing the necessary documentation. Financial Services should
  be provided with a copy of the Recipient Created Tax Invoice. In all other instances approval for the
  raising of a Recipient Created Tax Invoice should be denied.
Top 
Related Documents 
MOPP G/8.1 User Charging Policy
Top 
Modification History 
Date
Sections
Source
Details
  19.06.08
  All
  Acting Executive Director, Finance and Resource Planning
  Policy reviewed &ndash; minor editorial change only
  14.03.07
  G/7.1.1
  Director, Financial Services
  Updated to remove reference to Student Guild fees
06.09.05
All
Executive Director, Finance and Resource Planning
Updated consistent with current legislation and renumbered to G/7.1 (formerly
        G/12.1)
20.12.04
G/7.1.6
Registrar's Office
Editorial amendment (consistent with Higher Education Support Act 2003 and related
        Guidelines)
14.08.01
All
Director, Accounting Services
New section providing operational information on the GST
Top 
    Chapter A | Chapter B | Chapter C | Chapter D | Chapter E | Chapter F | Chapter G | Chapter H | Chapter I | Appendices | Protocol for MOPP Policy | Recent Updates
    QUT Home | MOPP Home
    CRICOS No. 00213J
    Privacy | Copyright | Accessibility
    Last modified 13-May-2010
    Contact us | Feedback | Disclaimer
