QUT | MOPP | G/8.1 User Charging policy
            QUT&nbsp;Home
          Contact&nbsp;us
          Search
      MOPP Home
      Protocol for MOPP Policy
      Recent Updates
      G/8.1 User Charging policy
Chapters
A - Governance/Organisation
B - Human Resources
C - Learning/Teaching
D - Research/Development
E - Student Administration
F - Information Management
G - Financial Management
H - Physical Facilities
I - International/Community
MOPP Appendices
MOPP Protocol
MOPP Updates
[Print-friendly version]
Contact OfficerDirector, Planning and Budget, Finance and Resource Planning 
Approval Date04/02/2011 
Approval AuthorityVice Chancellor 
Date of Next Review01/03/2014 
8.1.1 Policy overview 
8.1.2 Identification of the good or service for which a charge will be levied 
8.1.3 Rationale for proposed user charge 
8.1.4 Method of charge calculation 
8.1.5 Identification of the costs to be included in the charge calculation 
8.1.6 Cost of service less than or greater than $500,000 per annum 
8.1.7 Grouping of charges 
8.1.8 Process for the establishment and approval of user charges for internal, external and student users 
8.1.9 Annual review of user charges 
Related Documents 
Modification History 
8.1.1 Policy overview 
QUT's policy on user charging for goods and services, outside or ancillary
  to its mainstream services, is governed by the Financial  and Performance Management Standard 2009  (issued pursuant to the Financial Accountability Act 2009 ),
  the National Competition Policy principles, and the 
Higher Education Support
Act (HESA) 2003.
The policy aims to ensure a price structure which reflects the true cost to
  the University of producing goods and services and aims to encourage:
Users to be economical in their demand for the goods and services (e.g.
    users may vary the amount of goods or services consumed, or may procure similar
    goods and services from other suppliers and/or close substitutes of the goods
    and services), and;
QUT suppliers to be more efficient in the provision of goods and services
    (e.g. the University supplier is faced with competition from suppliers in
    the marketplace), and to make known to users the cost structure upon which
    fees or charges are based.
The Executive Director, Finance and Resource Planning, is responsible for
  implementing procedures to ensure that QUT complies with these requirements.
  These procedures are outlined in this policy.
The Division of Finance and Resource Planning is responsible for maintaining
  a current Register of User Charges. The Register contains details of all user
  charges (ie external, internal and student charges). The Register is reviewed
  annually providing faculties and divisions with the opportunity to amend, delete
  or propose new user charges to be managed by their particular organisational
  area.
Top 
8.1.2 Identification of the good or service for which a charge will be levied 
Faculties and divisions should clearly identify the good or service in the
  context of the core responsibilities of the unit. The good or service is to
have a description that clearly explains the nature of the product.
Policies 
G/8.2
(external
  user charging), 
G/8.3
(internal
  user charging) and 
G/8.4
(student
  user charging) provide guidelines for determining the types of charges which
  can be raised in either the external, internal or student charges categories.
  External legislative requirements and QUT's internal policies and procedures
  vary across these three charging categories.
Top 
8.1.3 Rationale for proposed user charge 
When a new user charge is proposed, a rationale must be prepared, outlining
  the purpose and nature of the charge. In this instance a faculty or division
is required to:
outline the extent to which the charge is outside the scope of an organisational
    area's core business activities which are funded on an ongoing basis; and
provide a case for the proposed charge to be approved.
Faculties and divisions are required to complete a standard proforma template
  when a new user charge is proposed. The template, when completed, should contain
  information relating to the scope and pricing structure of the charge. In addition,
  staff contact information should also be included in the template, so that
  an organisational area can be readily contacted if further clarification or
  information is required. The user charging proforma template is available on
  the 
Finance
  and Resource Planning
website.
Top 
8.1.4 Method of charge calculation 
Each good or service is to be priced according to one of the following calculation
methods:
Charge Calculation Method
Actual item cost
Other Direct Costs
Indirect Costs
Profit Margin
Category A
X
Category B
X
X
Category C
X
X
X
X
Note: Definitions for charge calculation methods are provided in G/8.1.5 below.
(a) Category A
Category A charges reflect the pure recovery of an item's cost. The price
  of the charge should reflect exactly the cost of the good / service being provided
  plus GST, if applicable. In the case of a good, the price should be the actual
  cost charged by the provider of the good, with the cost incurred being passed
  on without change to the consumer. Where a service is offered on a Category
  A basis, the user charge may only include salary and related on costs for a
  staff member's time. No additional charges, whether direct or indirect, are
  associated with this category of user charging.
QUT is required to adhere to the requirements and principles of the National
  Competition Policy in terms of full cost pricing of the good / service offered
  and competitive neutrality. However as Category A charges relate predominantly
  to the reallocation of organisational costs, these charges are exempt from
  the competitive neutrality principles. The Category A pricing policy is considered
  to be appropriate for goods / services that are assessed as being more efficiently
  provided from a central unit of the University, and the use of existing staff
  / facilities used in the provision of the good / service are provided for from
  within existing funds.
Examples include staff recruitment advertising charges and consumables.
Category A calculations are applicable to internal user charges offered on
  an internal basis only, and not in competition with external suppliers, as
  noted in G/8.3.3(a), and also can be applied as appropriate for student and
  external charges. GST may be applicable.
(b) Category B
The price of charges within this category reflect the actual cost of the good
  / service (as identified in the Category A pricing detailed above) plus other
  direct costs associated in delivering the good / service. Indirect costs (eg
  corporate service charges) are not to be included in a Category B charge. Examples
  of direct costs are provided in G/8.1.5(a) below.
This pricing policy is appropriate where the provision of the good / service
  is considered to be required by users, but the demand needs to be managed through
  a pricing policy that accurately reflects the cost of provision. As demand
  increases it may be necessary to engage additional staff and/or purchase capital
  equipment. The aim of this pricing policy is to ensure the delivery unit does
  not incur additional costs or make a profit through the delivery of the good
  / service. QUT is required to adhere to the requirements and principles of
  the National Competition Policy in terms of full cost pricing of the good /
  service offered and competitive neutrality. However as Category B charges relate
  predominantly to the reallocation of organisational costs, these charges are
  exempt from the competitive neutrality principles.
As part of the annual review of user charges, each division is required to
  submit a Statement of Financial Performance, disclosing the net operating result
  for the previous year, and a forecast for the current year, for all charges
  or groups of charges designated as Category B. Examples of Category B charges
  include telephone moves and charges, digital printing and photocopy charges.
Category B calculations are applicable to internal user charges offered on
  an internal basis only and not in competition with external suppliers, as noted
  in G/8.3.3(a), and also can be applied as appropriate for student and external
  user charges. GST may be applicable.
(c) Category C
The pricing policy should include recovery of all costs of producing the good
  / service. These include:
The actual cost of the good / service
Direct costs (see G/8.1.5(a) )
Indirect costs (see G/8.1.5(b) )
A profit margin in line with the market rate.
QUT is required to adhere to the requirements and principles of the National
  Competition Policy in terms of competitive neutrality through full cost pricing
  of the good / service offered on a competitive basis. Inclusion of all costs
  will ensure the price is comparable to external providers of a similar good
  / service.
Examples of goods / services in this category include the hire of campus services
  by external clients, parking fees for external clients, external printing charges,
  and external consulting and testing.
Category C can be applied to internal user charges offered in competition
  with external suppliers, external user charges and student user charges. GST
  may be applicable.
(d) Penalties and Fines
A fine or penalty may be charged where the charge is levied principally as
  a disincentive and not in order to raise revenue or cover administrative costs.
  This can be applied to external, internal and student user charges.
(e) Donations and Contributions
Refers to access to a facility/display for a nominal entry fee (e.g. a museum).
  Currently there is only one charge of this nature.
Top 
8.1.5 Identification of the costs to be included in the charge calculation 
The faculty/division should detail the costs which make up the total cost
  of production of the good or service. Importantly, all inputs to the activity
must be fully costed. Examples of costs to be included are:
(a) Direct costs
Salaries, wages and on costs
Goods and services, for example:
Supplies/consumables
Administrative overheads (eg. equipment hire, licence fees, transport,
      postage)
Other overheads (eg. maintenance, fuel)
Professional fees
Service fees
Leasing/buyback arrangements
Depreciation/amortisation costs associated with equipment used in the provision
    of the good/service
It should be noted that Capital Purchase Costs are accounted for over the
  life of the asset through depreciation charges.
While the above list is not exhaustive, it does provide a guide to the major
  components of costs and the level of detail required. Within these major components,
  key items involved with the provision of a good or service should be identified.
In determining the direct cost of a good or service, reliable costing mechanisms
  should be used, for example, actual expenditure from the general ledger system,
  quotations from suppliers, Operating Grant funds provided for the good/service
  etc. All costs should be able to be readily justified.
(b) Indirect costs
Rent on premises (or where premises are provided by QUT, the opportunity
    cost of rent)
Electricity, Rates, water costs and other utilities
The cost of QUT support services including personnel services and corporate
    services.
Indirect costs should only be included in the charge calculation for goods
  / services offered on a Category C basis, as per G/8.1.4. Category
  C is applicable to internal user charges offered in competition with external
  suppliers, and may be applicable to external user charges and student user
  charges.
(c) Goods and Services Tax (GST)
If GST is applicable then the amount / rate of the user charge should include
the GST. It should be noted that GST can only apply to external and student charges,
not to internal charges.
Top 
8.1.6 Cost of service less than or greater than $500,000 per annum 
(a) Less than $500,000 per annum
If the annual cost of producing a good / service is less than $500,000 per
  annum, faculties / divisions should develop a user charging proposal which
  presents the 
rationale for charging,
and the 
pricing
  policy
based on actual costs and market conditions,
  in accordance with sub-sections 
G/8.1.3
and 
G/8.1.4.
This
  information must be entered into the standard user charging proforma template,
  supplied by the Department of Planning and Budget. 
(b) Greater than $500,000 per annum
If the cost of a good or service is greater than $500,000 per annum, a more
  comprehensive analysis is required. Faculties / divisions will need to submit
  to the Executive Director, Finance and Resource Planning, a full economic evaluation.
  The following information is required from faculties and divisions:
A case for review of the faculty / division operational budget in light
    of identified shifts in demand, or lack of external providers, and whether
    to continue / commence production of the good or service on a free to user
    basis. (This is likely to be appropriate where the shift in demand is considered
    to be a once-off shift.)
A case for the organisational area implementing a system of internal user
    charges (not in a competitive environment) for the good or service. (This
    is likely to be considered appropriate where a continuing upward trend in
    demand shifts is likely.)
A case for the organisational area implementing a system of user charges
    in competition with external suppliers.
A case for outsourcing provision of the good or service to a private organisation.
The 
status quo
gives a picture of the current environment,
    and provides a base against which to assess all other options presented.
    The 
status quo
is seldom acceptable on the basis that it does
    not meet the needs of the organisation. Nevertheless, it is an essential
    component of the evaluation and must be provided.
Top 
8.1.7 Grouping of charges 
Where goods / services of a similar nature are offered by a faculty or division,
  these charges need not be approved individually and recorded as separate entries
  on the Register. Instead they can be allocated to a group charge on the Register
  with a specified price range. In this instance, a detailed charge list (subsidiary
  register) of the individual charges must be maintained at the delivery unit
  level. These charges must be reviewed annually at the delivery unit level.
  Examples of charge groupings include laptop rentals and paper sales provided
by the Division of Technology, Information and Learning Support.
Top 
8.1.8 Process for the establishment and approval of user charges for internal, external and student users 
Procedures outlined in this section should be read in conjunction with 
G/8.2
G/8.3
and
G/8.4
which
  define and outline the policy for external, internal and student user charging
respectively.
The Executive Director, Finance and Resource Planning, is responsible for
  recommending to the Vice-Chancellor any proposals for external, internal and
  student user charging. Such recommendation will be contingent upon the proper
  process for establishment of new charges being undertaken by the responsible
  organisational area, according to the guidelines outlined in this policy.
Prior to submission to Vice-Chancellor's Advisory Committee and the Vice-Chancellor,
  the Department of Planning and Budget (Division of Finance and Resource Planning) will
  review the user charging proposal and provide comment and recommendations.
The Department of Planning and Budget will examine each proposed user charge in line
  with the requirements outlined in the policy.
Where the Executive Director, Finance and Resource Planning, endorses a proposed
  user charge, the Executive Director will submit the user charging proposal
  to the Vice-Chancellor for approval, after consideration by Vice-Chancellor's
  Advisory Committee. Following this, the revised Register of User Charges is
  submitted to Planning and Resources Committee for information.
Following approval by the Vice-Chancellor the Department of Planning and Budget will
  update the Register of User Charges and ensure an updated copy is readily available
  to all interested internal, student and external parties.
Faculties and divisions can submit a request for a new user charge or an amendment
  to a current user charge to the Executive Director, Finance and Resource Planning.
  These requests for a new or amended charge should be submitted as part of the
  annual review process. 
Submissions outside of the annual review process
  should only occur in exceptional circumstances.
All user charging proposals must be submitted with a completed user charging
proforma template attached.
Top 
8.1.9 Annual review of user charges 
Each year the University undertakes a complete review of the Register of User
  Charges for external, internal and student charges. The purpose of this review
  is for faculties and divisions to identify current user charges which require
  amendment, current user charges which are to be deleted, and any proposed new
user charges. Explanations of these categories are provided as follows:
Current user charges which require amendment: due to changes in the scope
    or pricing rationale of a charge, or minor changes to unit name and responsibility
    centre details following organisational restructure. Amendments include annual
    price increases due to CPI/EBA and are shown as a percentage increase over
    the previous years' charge.
Current user charges to be deleted: charges may need to be deleted where
    the charge is deemed to be no longer relevant to the scope of an organisational
    area, where organisational change has resulted in a major restructure of
    charging categories, where an organisational area's base funding has been
    adjusted to include funding for the provision of these goods or services,
    or where a decrease in demand has resulted in the cost of administration
    exceeding any efficiency gains.
Proposed new user charges: where new charges to be added to the Register
    are identified.
The Division of Finance and Resource Planning is responsible for coordinating
  the annual review of user charges. The review process requires the Division
  of Finance and Resource Planning to provide each faculty and division with:
A summary of its current external, internal, and student user charges
A standard user charging proforma template into which all user charging
    amendments, deletions and proposed new charges must be entered.
Faculties and divisions are then required to review their external, internal,
  and student user charges and submit their completed proforma templates, detailing
  amendments, deletions and any proposed new user charges, to the Division of
  Finance and Resource Planning. Submitted templates must include details of
  amended, deleted and new user charges. The user charging proforma template
  is available on the 
Finance
  and Resource Planning
website.
For each user charge, or group of user charges (see G/8.1.7 above), offered
  on a Category B basis (see G/8.1.4(	b) above), an Income Statement disclosing the net operating result for the previous year, is to be provided
  at each annual review.
A rationale must be provided for all new user charges. A rationale is also
  required for amended user charges where there has been a change in the scope
  or pricing structure of the charge (see G/8.1.3 above) .
The Department of Planning and Budget will collate all responses and review the faculty
  and division submissions in accordance with the provisions outlined in this
  policy. Where clarification or further information is required, the Department of Planning and Budget will contact the relevant organisational area as necessary.
The Department of Planning and Budget will then provide a summary report of the amended,
  deleted and proposed new user charges to the Executive Director, Finance and
  Resource Planning, providing comments and recommendations where necessary.
  The summary report will then be provided to Vice-Chancellor's Advisory Committee
  and the Vice-Chancellor for approval.
Following approval, the Department of Planning and Budget will place an updated copy
  of the Register of User Charges on the Division of Finance and Resource Planning's
  web site, ensuring that this updated copy is readily available to all interested
  parties.
Top 
Related Documents 
MOPP G/8.2 External User Charging Policy
MOPP G/8.3 Internal User Charging Policy
MOPP G/8.4 Student User Charging policy
Top 
Modification History 
Date
Sections
Source
Details
   17.02.11
   All
   Director, Planning and Budget, Finance and Resource Planning
   Periodic review - Minor editorial changes only
06.10.05
All
Vice-Chancellor
Revised policy (endorsed by Vice-Chancellor's Advisory Committee 25.05.05)
31.05.03
All
Acting Executive Director, Finance and Resource Planning
Updated
20.07.98
G/8.1
Vice-Chancellor
Revised user charging policy (endorsed by Planning and Resources Committee 
      25.3.98)
Top 
    Chapter A | Chapter B | Chapter C | Chapter D | Chapter E | Chapter F | Chapter G | Chapter H | Chapter I | Appendices | Protocol for MOPP Policy | Recent Updates
    QUT Home | MOPP Home
    CRICOS No. 00213J
    Privacy | Copyright | Accessibility
    Last modified 16-Feb-2011
    Contact us | Feedback | Disclaimer
