QUT | MOPP | G/8.3 Internal User Charging Policy
            QUT&nbsp;Home
          Contact&nbsp;us
          Search
      MOPP Home
      Protocol for MOPP Policy
      Recent Updates
      G/8.3 Internal User Charging Policy
Chapters
A - Governance/Organisation
B - Human Resources
C - Learning/Teaching
D - Research/Development
E - Student Administration
F - Information Management
G - Financial Management
H - Physical Facilities
I - International/Community
MOPP Appendices
MOPP Protocol
MOPP Updates
[Print-friendly version]
Contact OfficerDirector, Planning and Budget, Finance and Resource Planning 
Approval Date04/02/2011 
Approval AuthorityVice Chancellor 
Date of Next Review01/03/2014 
8.3.1 Internal user charges 
8.3.2 Definitions 
8.3.3 Principles for internal user charging 
Related Documents 
Modification History 
8.3.1 Internal user charges 
There are no legal requirements for user charging to be applied to users within
  the University. However for resource allocation and financial management purposes,
  it may be appropriate in some circumstances for responsibility centres to charge
each other for their goods and services.
The Executive Director, Finance and Resource Planning, is responsible for
  recommending to the Vice-Chancellor any proposals for internal charging. Such
  recommendation will be contingent upon the proper process for establishment
  of new or revised internal charges being undertaken by the responsible organisational
  area, according to the procedures in 
G/8.1.
At the completion of the annual review of user charges, a revised Register
  of User Charges is submitted via the Executive Director, Finance and Resource
  Planning, to the Vice-Chancellor for approval, after consideration by Vice-Chancellor's
  Advisory Committee. Following this, the revised Register of User Charges is
  submitted to Planning and Resources Committee for information.
A proposed internal charge which is not approved and registered may not be
  levied.
Top 
8.3.2 Definitions 
An Internal User Charge is raised when:
A faculty/division, department/school charges another area within the
    University for a good or service provided internally by the charging faculty/division,
    or procured from an external organisation by the charging faculty/division,
    and
The good or service is not regarded as a routine administrative overhead
    of the University.
An internal user is defined as
a person acting on behalf of the University - this includes
employees of the University
members of Council
affiliated persons as from time to time determined by the Vice-Chancellor.
In some instances, the University will choose to organise its overheads in
  such a manner that one area is responsible for the administration of particular
  goods and services that will be utilised by various organisational areas across
  the University in the course of their normal business. Examples of such goods
  and services are postage, telephones, central stores and the purchase of furniture.
  In these cases, the reallocation of costs according to actual demand in each
  faculty or division is not regarded as internal user charging for the purposes
  of this policy.
Top 
8.3.3 Principles for internal user charging 
Internal users are required to pay for goods and services supplied by the
University. However, the University shall not require payment where:
The good or service provided is non-routine and immaterial in amount
The ongoing administrative costs of user charging and revenue collection
    exceed the expected long term efficiency gains
Goods and services provided by an organisational area are funded in the
    area's base Operating Funds budget allocation.
In addition charges should not be used between organisational areas as a means
  to achieve a reallocation of resources unless this is deemed to be in the best
  interests of the University by the Vice-Chancellor, or the service is outside
  the core business of the unit and establishment of the service is undertaken
  on a competitive basis.
In establishing internal user charges for goods and services, all options
  for provision should be considered in full. That is, a thorough analysis must
  be undertaken including outsourcing options where suggested.
The Financial and Performance Management Standard 2009 requires that in determining the appropriate level of charges, the following  should be considered by the organisational area providing the good or service
  The users have the capacity to pay for the  goods or services
  The users have a choice whether to accept the  goods or services
  The goods or services are available from a supplier other than the department or statutory body
  Supplying the goods or services is required or  permitted by legislation
  The goods or services are supplied for the  benefit of the general public or for the benefit only of users who do not have  the capacity to pay
  The administrative costs of charging and  collecting the charges are more than, or may be more than the revenue  collected
  An agreement exists between the department or statutory body and users about charging for the goods or services
  Charging for the goods or services improves, or  may improve, resource allocation through more economical use of the goods or  services
  Other factors exist that the accountable officer  or statutory body considers relevant.
In deciding charges for the goods or services, that  accountable officer can structure user charges to either cover full cost or  decide to charge less than full cost if it is satisfied as appropriate.
Further information in relation to these pricing requirements, including
  definitions of direct and indirect costs is provided in 
G/8.1.5.
Information
  about methods of charge calculation for internal charges (including Category
  A, Category B, Category C, penalties and fines, and donations and contributions)
  is available in 
G/8.1.4
(a) Internal charging wholly within QUT (no competition with external suppliers)
When a faculty or division offers a good or service on an internal charging
  basis, and the charge is not subject to competition with external suppliers,
  then the following conditions must be met
The good or service is for the exclusive benefit of internal clients and
    is not available to the general public
The good or service is regarded as a public good, and is therefore not
    a lucrative prospect for commercial suppliers.
Where internal charges have no external competition the pricing method should
  be either Category A or Category B; refer to 
G/8.1.4
(a)
  and (b). No GST should be included in the pricing calculation for internal
  user charges in line with 
G/8.1.5
(c).
  The following conditions must be adhered to for internal charges which are
  not offered in competition with external prices
The pricing policy should be based on all direct costs as detailed in 
G/8.1.5
(a)
Internal clients should be required to use these services
No profit margin should be included in the charge pricing policy. As such,
    labour costs, where these are within the normal establishment costs of the
    organisational unit, are not to be factored into the price
Any operating funds which subsidise provision of the good / service should
    be deducted from the cost of the service prior to calculating price per unit
Any direct costs already funded from existing University funding sources
    are not to be factored into the price.
(b) Internal charging offered on an internal basis, but in competition with
  external suppliers
Where a good or service is to be offered to internal users in competition
  with other external providers, the internal provider must adhere to the principles
  of fair competition.
For goods or services offered on an internal basis to QUT clients, and in
  competition with external suppliers, the appropriate pricing policy is Category
  C as outlined in 
G/8.1.4
(c)
  The following conditions must be met:
A profit margin in line with the market rate should be included in the
    rationale for the user charge proposal
The pricing policy should be based on 
all costs of providing the
    good / service - including indirect costs
. That is, not only
    should the direct costs of labour and consumables be included in the pricing
    policy, the following should also be included
Rent on premises (or, where premises are provided by QUT, the opportunity
      cost of rent)
The cost of QUT support services including personnel services, corporate
      services, etc.
Further information on indirect costs, including examples is available in 
G/8.1.5
(b).
Internal QUT clients should not be required to use the good or service, but
  should be allowed to obtain competitive quotes from external suppliers as required.
Faculties and divisions may wish to offer internal users a discount on the
  price of the service to encourage their support for internal production of
  the good / service and make it a more viable prospect. In this case, internal
  clients should also be required to use the internal provider as the price is
  still below that which could be obtained outside the organisation.
Top 
Related Documents 
MOPP G/8.1 User charging policy
MOPP G/8.2 External user charging policy
MOPP G/8.4 Student user charging policy
Top 
Modification History 
Date
Sections
Source
Details
   17.02.11
   All
  Director, Planning and Budget, Finance and Resource Planning
   Periodic review - Minor editorial changes only
06.10.05
All
Vice-Chancellor
Revised policy (endorsed by Vice-Chancellor's Advisory Committee
    25.05.05)
31.05.03
All
Acting Executive Director, Finance and Resource Planning
Updated
20.7.1998
All
Vice-Chancellor
Revised user charging policy (endorsed by Planning and Resources Committee 
      25.3.98)
Top 
    Chapter A | Chapter B | Chapter C | Chapter D | Chapter E | Chapter F | Chapter G | Chapter H | Chapter I | Appendices | Protocol for MOPP Policy | Recent Updates
    QUT Home | MOPP Home
    CRICOS No. 00213J
    Privacy | Copyright | Accessibility
    Last modified 16-Feb-2011
    Contact us | Feedback | Disclaimer
