QUT | MOPP | G/8.4 Student User Charging policy
            QUT&nbsp;Home
          Contact&nbsp;us
          Search
      MOPP Home
      Protocol for MOPP Policy
      Recent Updates
      G/8.4 Student User Charging policy
Chapters
A - Governance/Organisation
B - Human Resources
C - Learning/Teaching
D - Research/Development
E - Student Administration
F - Information Management
G - Financial Management
H - Physical Facilities
I - International/Community
MOPP Appendices
MOPP Protocol
MOPP Updates
[Print-friendly version]
Contact OfficerDirector, Planning and Budget, Finance and Resource Planning 
Approval Date04/02/2011 
Approval AuthorityVice Chancellor 
Date of Next Review01/03/2014 
8.4.1 Student user charging 
8.4.2 Definitions 
8.4.3 Principles for student user charging 
Related Documents 
Modification History 
8.4.1 Student user charging 
The Executive Director, Finance and Resource Planning, is responsible for
  recommending to the Vice-Chancellor any proposals for student charging. Such
  recommendation will be contingent upon the proper process for establishment
  of new or revised student charges being undertaken by the responsible organisational
area, according to the procedures in 
G/8.1.
At the completion of the annual review of user charges, a revised Register
  of User Charges is submitted via the Executive Director, Finance and Resource
  Planning, to the Vice-Chancellor for approval, after consideration by Vice-Chancellor's
  Advisory Committee. Following this, the revised Register of User Charges is
  submitted to Planning and Resources Committee for information.
A proposed student charge which is not approved and registered may not be
  levied.
Top 
8.4.2 Definitions 
A Student User Charge is raised when
A faculty/division or school/department charges an internal, external
    or off-campus student of the University for a good or service either provided
    internally, or procured from an external organisation
The charge is not regarded as the normal course enrolment fee, student
    union fee, or administrative services charge, all of which are levied at
    the commencement of study within a year.
A student, for the purposes of this policy, is defined as
A person currently enrolled in an award course offered by the University.
Students currently enrolled in a non-award course are considered under 
G/8.2.
Top 
8.4.3 Principles for student user charging 
Consistent with Australian Government legislation and guidelines, Commonwealth
  supported and domestic fee-paying students must be able to complete the requirements
  of their courses without facing charges for those courses. This precludes the
  imposition of charges for compulsory or essential components of the course
or its assessment and award.
QUT students should have equitable access to classrooms, study facilities
  provided by faculties, central facilities, Library borrowing, computer laboratory
  usage, etc without charge.
The University may however charge a fee for goods and services that are incidental
  to a student's course of study. The government's 
Guidelines
  for Commonwealth Grant Scheme
available at the DEEWR website outline
  the criteria under which a fee may be charged. These include where the fee
  is for
A good or service that is not essential to a course of study
An alternative form or alternative forms of, access to a good or service
    that is an essential component of a course but is otherwise made readily
    available at no additional charge by the University
An essential good or service that the student has the choice of acquiring
    from a supplier other than the University and is for
Equipment or items which become the physical property of the student
      and are not consumed during the course of study
Food, transport and accommodation costs associated with the provision
      of field trips
A fine or penalty, provided that the charge is levied principally as a
    disincentive and not in order to raise revenue or cover administrative costs.
Examples of the types of fees that may be charged are outlined in the  
Administrative Information for Providers
(Section
  19) available at the DEEWR website.
Student charges should not be raised where
The good or service is required for a course of study unless that good
    or service, or an alternative to it, is also available to students at no
    additional charge
The good or service provided is non-routine and immaterial in amount
The ongoing administrative costs of user charging and revenue collection
    exceeds the expected long term efficiency gains
Goods and services provided by an organisational area are funded in the
    area's base Operating Funds budget allocation.
In courses where additional course-related costs are involved, the faculty
  should ensure access to necessary services (eg reasonable access to computers,
  library books, scientific equipment).
Furthermore, under State and Federal anti-discrimination legislation, the
  University may not discriminate against students with disabilities by charging
  extra fees for services provided as reasonable accommodation to enable access
  to and progress in their education.
The Financial and Performance Management Standard 2009 requires that in determining the appropriate level of charges, the following  should be considered by the organisational area providing the good or service
  The users have the capacity to pay for the  goods or services
  The users have a choice whether to accept the  goods or services
  The goods or services are available from a supplier other than the department or statutory body
  Supplying the goods or services is required or  permitted by legislation
  The goods or services are supplied for the  benefit of the general public or for the benefit only of users who do not have  the capacity to pay
  The administrative costs of charging and  collecting the charges are more than, or may be more than the revenue  collected
  An agreement exists between the department or  statutory body and users about charging for the goods or services
  Charging for the goods or services improves, or  may improve, resource allocation through more economical use of the goods or  services
  Other factors exist that the accountable officer or statutory body considers relevant.
In deciding charges for the goods or services, that  accountable officer can structure user charges to either cover full cost or  decide to charge less than full cost if it is satisfied as appropriate.
Further information in relation to these pricing requirements, including definitions
  of direct and indirect costs is provided in 
G/8.1.5.
  Information about methods of charge calculation for student charges (including
  Category A, Category B, Category C, penalties and fines, and donations and
  contributions) is available in 
G/8.1.4.
All pricing options are appropriate for the calculation of student user charges
  (see 
G/8.1.4).
  GST should be included in the price calculation for all student user charges
  unless deemed to be GST exempt as per 
G/8.1.5
(c).
QUT is required to adhere to the requirements and principles of the National
  Competition Policy in terms of competitive neutrality through full cost pricing
  of the good / service offered on a competitive basis. Inclusion of all costs
  will ensure the price is comparable to external providers of a similar good
  / service.
The University may charge fines or penalties provided the charge is levied
  principally as a disincentive and not in order to raise revenue or cover administrative
  costs.
Any fees charged for non-essential or non-compulsory course materials, field
  trips, equipment or services should not exceed the total costs of these materials.
Government legislation allows the University to charge fees to students undertaking
  units of study during a summer school period provided the unit is also available
  as part of a course of study within normal semester periods to Commonwealth
  supported students.
Top 
Related Documents 
MOPP G/8.1 User charging policy
MOPP G/8.2 External user charging policy
MOPP G/8.3 Internal user charging policy
Top 
Modification History 
Date
Sections
Source
Details
   17.02.11
   All
  Director, Planning and Budget, Finance and Resource Planning
   Periodic review - Minor editorial changes
06.10.05
All
Vice-Chancellor
Revised policy (endorsed by Vice-Chancellor's Advisory Committee 25.05.05)
22.03.05
All
Vice-Chancellor
Updated to ensure compliance with Higher Education Support Act 2003.
31.05.03
All
Acting Executive Director, Finance and Resource Planning
Updated
20.7.1998
All
Vice-Chancellor
Revised user charging policy (endorsed by Planning and Resources Committee 
      25.3.98)
Top 
    Chapter A | Chapter B | Chapter C | Chapter D | Chapter E | Chapter F | Chapter G | Chapter H | Chapter I | Appendices | Protocol for MOPP Policy | Recent Updates
    QUT Home | MOPP Home
    CRICOS No. 00213J
    Privacy | Copyright | Accessibility
    Last modified 16-Feb-2011
    Contact us | Feedback | Disclaimer
