QUT | MOPP | H/2.1 Planning and management of physical facilities
            QUT&nbsp;Home
          Contact&nbsp;us
          Search
      MOPP Home
      Protocol for MOPP Policy
      Recent Updates
      H/2.1 Planning and management of physical facilities
Chapters
A - Governance/Organisation
B - Human Resources
C - Learning/Teaching
D - Research/Development
E - Student Administration
F - Information Management
G - Financial Management
H - Physical Facilities
I - International/Community
MOPP Appendices
MOPP Protocol
MOPP Updates
[Print-friendly version]
Contact OfficerDirector, Facilities Management 
Approval Date14/11/2005 
Approval AuthorityVice-Chancellor 
Date of Next Review01/07/2009 
2.1.1 Definitions 
2.1.2 Physical facilities planning and management at QUT 
2.1.3 Responsibilities of Division of Finance and Resource Planning 
2.1.4 Responsibilities of Facilities Management Department 
2.1.5 Responsibilities of executive deans of faculty / heads of division 
2.1.6 Committee structure relating to management of physical facilities 
2.1.7 Asset Management Plan 
2.1.8 Space Management System (SMS) 
2.1.9 Tenants and other users 
Modification History 
2.1.1 Definitions 
Terms in common usage within the field of facilities management may sometimes
  have a specific meaning which is different from that in common usage. Clear
  definition of specialist terms will be of use in understanding the various
  policies relating to QUT's physical facilities and some of these terms are
defined as follows:
built environment
refers to fixed structures
  located on the site, ie buildings etc.
electronic access
refers to authorised
  entry and exit at facilities controlled by means other than keys.
external environment
is that part of
  the site other than the built environment, ie grounds.
facilities
is a term that encompasses
  site, the built and external environments, and associated services.
maintenance
refers to work carried out
  in order to retain an item or asset in or restore it to its original condition.
property
refers to any building, premises,
  physical asset, or land belonging to the University or for which the University
  is responsible. This includes all aspects of the University's built and external
  environments as well as physical assets such as motor vehicles, furniture,
  plant and operating equipment.
QUT lands
means lands vested in or held
  by or under the management or control of QUT and includes all buildings and
  structures of any kind standing or being on such lands.
services
are those on-site utilities
  (ie water, electricity, gas etc) and physical systems (ie voice and data communications)
  that enable the property to function.
site
means an area identified by geographical
  location.
space
- is a designated area within a building, assigned
  to an organisational unit (eg teaching space, laboratories, offices etc) or
  identified for a particular purpose (eg lift wells, service corridors etc).
University vehicle
means any vehicle
  owned or leased by the University
works
refers to projects undertaken
  in relation to both construction and maintenance of University property.
Top 
2.1.2 Physical facilities planning and management at QUT 
Council as the University's governing body sets its strategic direction through
  overall long-term planning which encompasses capital development and preservation.
  The key advisory committee to Council in this area is Planning and Resources
  Committee.  Through
  an integrated planning and resource allocation process, a five-yearly strategic
  Asset Management Plan is developed and approved by Council. The Vice-Chancellor,
  as the University's chief executive officer, is responsible for the implementation
  of the Asset Management Plan and is assisted in this by the Executive Director,
Finance and Resource Planning and the Director, Facilities Management.
Facilities management within the University cuts across organisational boundaries.
  The Executive Director, Finance and Resource Planning, assisted by the Director,
  Facilities Management coordinates the capital and financial planning process
  which culminates in the Asset Management Plan being developed. The Facilities
  Management Department is responsible for delivery of the approved capital management
  plan and the ongoing program of maintenance for University property with strategic
  oversight by the Executive Director, Finance and Resource Planning. In addition,
  each faculty and division has direct responsibility for the management of facilities
  located within its allocated space.
Facilities Management also has responsibility for the operation of Business
  Services and provides the links between the University and its tenants.
Top 
2.1.3 Responsibilities of Division of Finance and Resource Planning 
The Division of Finance and Resource Planning is responsible for strategic
planning and resource allocation for the University.
In relation to the development of the Asset Management Plan (see section 
H/2.1.2
and 
H/2.1.7),
  the Division of Finance and Resource Planning is responsible for
the development of strategic planning scenarios for space provision by
    campus and organisational unit and the strategic allocation of all University
    space
liaison with Facilities Management and executive deans of faculty / heads
    of division on strategic space allocation issues within the context of strategic
    planning
broad concept planning, budget setting and approval for individual projects
    based on information obtained from the Facilities Management Department
monitoring of the Asset Management Plan against budget on advice from
    Facilities Management Department
liaison with external bodies regarding capital funding
development of funding proposals for externally financed projects
the development, recommendation and implementation of policy and procedures
    to enhance the use of accountability for, and safeguarding of, QUT's capital
    resources
providing guidance to proponents (faculties and divisions) on the preparation
    of business cases for major capital projects
The Executive Director, Finance and Resource Planning is responsible to the
  Vice-Chancellor across the following areas
Budget Management
- for QUT's resource position, projection
    of forward estimates of income and commitment, and capital planning reconciliation
    and strategic space allocation
Corporate Planning -
which sponsors and ensures QUT's
    corporate planning systems meet internal management needs and are consistent
    with external reporting requirements, the operation of the corporate planning
    system and corporate reviews, and QUT's Quality and Risk Management systems
Strategic Data Analysis
which is responsible for the
    University's official data and reporting to DEEWR
The Division of Finance and Resource Planning liaises closely in the context
  of the University's Asset Management Plan with the Facilities Management Department.
Top 
2.1.4 Responsibilities of Facilities Management Department 
The Facilities Management Department is responsible for the operational aspects
  of facilities management and assists the Division of Finance and Resource Planning
  in the strategic aspects of facilities planning. The Director - Facilities
  Management is responsible, through the Registrar to the Vice-Chancellor, for
a number of functional areas as follows:
Office of the Director
- departmental management and
    planning, management of leased property, and financial coordination
Capital Works Section
- management of major and minor
    capital projects from inception through the planning, design and construction
    stages to commissioning and occupancy
Operations Section
- expert advice on site services,
    maintenance and restoration of the physical fabric of the University, energy
    management, input to capital works in terms of provision of services and
    life cycle costs, space management, design guidelines, and facilities records
    management
Security Section
- security on all campuses, including
    electronic access and protection for the property of the University, its
    students, staff and visitors, which is coordinated through the Central Monitoring
    Station at Kelvin Grove campus
Campus Services
- day to day facilities management on
    campuses including identification and allocation of temporary space which
    includes decant space for building projects (subject to confirmation by Division
    of Finance and Resource Planning of compatibility with strategic plans),
    grounds, maintenance, cleaning, security, parking, campus vehicles, hire
    of facilities, campus mail, and timetabling
Business Services
- operation of bookshops, parking,
    catering and commercial outlets.
Top 
2.1.5 Responsibilities of executive deans of faculty / heads of division 
Executive deans of faculty and heads of division are responsible for the
  overall administration of their faculty/division, including distribution of
resources among schools, departments and independent sections.
There will be occasions when the executive dean of faculty or head of division
  wishes to allocate resources that impact on the physical fabric of the University,
  for example a minor works project. In such situations it is essential that
  work requests be referred to Facilities Management to ensure
compliance with the range of legislative requirements to which the University
    is subject, in particular the 
Building Code of
Australia
updating of the Space Management System (SMS)
confirmation with Division of Finance and Resource Planning that the proposal
    is compatible with strategic space allocation.
Guidelines on how to submit capital works and maintenance requests are located
  on the 
Facilities Management
web
  page.
Top 
2.1.6 Committee structure relating to management of physical facilities 
Planning and Resources Committee of Council
Planning and Resources Committee of Council is responsible for recommending
  the strategic directions of the University to Council in the context of development
  of the University's plans and their resourcing strategies. It also provides
  advice to Council and to senior management on issues arising from these plans.
  A full description of the role of Planning and Resources Committee, including
  its role in relation to physical facilities, is at 
A/3.5.
Top 
2.1.7 Asset Management Plan 
The University Council adopts an Asset Management Plan, on recommendation
  from Planning and Resources Committee, as one of the institutional support
  plans. The Asset Management Plan includes provision for deferred and recurrent
  maintenance and a funding flow to implement these programs. As a rolling five
  year plan it is designed to accommodate the need to revise priorities, while
  at the same time providing the maximum planned outcome within a funding horizon
of five years.
Broad parameters inform physical facilities management and development of
  the Asset Management Plan, including
ensuring congruence between QUT's teaching, research and service goals
    and the provision of capital
strategic location of organisational units on and within each campus
appropriateness and capacity of space for the University's academic and
    support programs, including information technology needs
efficient usage of a limited resource
a proper alignment of the development of the fabric to the University's
    direction and priorities, including information technology infrastructure
responsible maintenance of the existing fabric
recognition of the entitlement of students, staff and the community to
    access broader social and cultural development.
To ensure that funds are allocated productively, Project Evaluation Guidelines,
  which require all major capital projects be subject to a Business Case, have
  been introduced.
The Asset Management Plan program is regularly reviewed in the light of actual
  expenditure, changing priorities and the overall financial position of the
  University, eg the strategy is revised after a major building has been completed
  and the actual costs, as opposed to those estimated, are known.
The Executive Director, Finance and Resource Planning is responsible for submission
of the Asset Management Plan to Planning and Resources Committee. Progress on
its implementation is constantly monitored by the Director, Facilities Management
and the Executive Director, Finance and Resource Planning.
Top 
2.1.8 Space Management System (SMS) 
The Space Management System (SMS) is an asset management database for the
  University and is maintained by Facilities Management Operations Section (Standards
  and Records). It is the definitive database for space management within the
University.
In addition, the SMS provides on line access to floor plans of all campus
  buildings. A geographical information database is maintained on a separate
  system.
Heads of organisational units are responsible for informing the Standards
  and Records Section of any changes to space allocation made by them, such as
  room changes for staff, research or other purposes.
The Executive Director, Finance and Resource Planning is responsible for
  strategic space allocation across all campuses and any proposed change must
  be approved as consistent with strategic space allocation.
The SMS is reviewed regularly by Facilities Management and updated for changes
  to space usage resulting from building renovations, demolitions and new constructions,
  or from alterations to room use or occupancy. Project managers are responsible
  for providing project drawings and any subsequent amendments, additions, refurbishments
  etc, and for maintaining campus site plans.
The Division of Finance and Resource Planning is reliant on the SMS for accurate
  statistical information to inform strategic planning and strategic space allocation,
  review the Asset Management Plan, and meet statutory reporting and accountability
  requirements.
Top 
2.1.9 Tenants and other users 
Tenants and other users of University property have obligations to work within
  the specific conditions of their individual lease agreement with the University
(see 
H/3.2.4).
There will be occasions when tenants may wish to allocate resources that
  impact on the physical fabric of the University, eg a minor works project.
  In such situations it is essential that work requests be referred to Facilities
  Management to ensure compliance with the range of legislative requirements
  to which the University is subject, in particular the 
Building Code of
  Australia
Top 
Modification History 
Date
Sections
Source
Details
  10.12.10
  H/2.1.6
  Governance Services
  Policy revised to reflect disestablishment of Physical Infrastructure Advisory Committee
  24.11.10
  All
  Planning and Resources Committee
  Approval authority changed to Vice-Chancellor
  13.06.07
  H/2.1.2, H/2.1.6
  Council
  Updated to remove reference to Physical and Virtual  Steering Committee (disestablished 13.06.07)
14.11.05
All
Planning and Resources Committee
Policy updated
02.07.04
H/2.1.6
Secretariat
Updated to reflect revised committee structure in accordance with 2003/2004 Committees Review (approved by Council 02.06.04 and Vice-Chancellor 29.06.04); incorporates new Physical and Virtual Steering Committee and Physical Infrastructure Advisory Committee; deleted Buildings and Grounds Committee (disbanded 02.06.04)
20.12.01
All
Director - Facilities Management
Updated
03.12.00
H/2.1.6
Council
Revised terms of reference and membership 
of Buildings and Grounds Committee
(2000 Review of Committees Recommendation 
      12)
13.01.00
H/2.1.6
Chancellor
Revised membership provisions 
of Buildings and Grounds Committee
(Finance and Facilities Director, Capital 
      Works Manager and Operations Manager replaced by Facilities Management Director 
      in accordance with department restructure)
10.12.97
H/2.1.6
Council
Revised terms of reference and membership
of Buildings and Grounds Committee
Top 
    Chapter A | Chapter B | Chapter C | Chapter D | Chapter E | Chapter F | Chapter G | Chapter H | Chapter I | Appendices | Protocol for MOPP Policy | Recent Updates
    QUT Home | MOPP Home
    CRICOS No. 00213J
    Privacy | Copyright | Accessibility
    Last modified 10-Dec-2010
    Contact us | Feedback | Disclaimer
