QUT | MOPP | H/3.4 Security
            QUT&nbsp;Home
          Contact&nbsp;us
          Search
      MOPP Home
      Protocol for MOPP Policy
      Recent Updates
      H/3.4 Security
Chapters
A - Governance/Organisation
B - Human Resources
C - Learning/Teaching
D - Research/Development
E - Student Administration
F - Information Management
G - Financial Management
H - Physical Facilities
I - International/Community
MOPP Appendices
MOPP Protocol
MOPP Updates
[Print-friendly version]
Contact OfficerSecurity Manager 
Approval Date14/11/2005 
Approval AuthorityRegistrar 
Date of Next Review01/07/2009 
3.4.1 Building security design standards 
3.4.2 Access in and out of buildings 
3.4.3 Emergency access 
3.4.4 After hours access 
3.4.5 Lost property 
3.4.6 Cash handling policy 
3.4.7 Theft or wilful damage of property 
3.4.8 Weapons on campus 
3.4.9 Emergency Procedures (fire, bomb threat, etc) 
3.4.10 Counter Disaster Plan 
3.4.11 Closed circuit television policy 
Modification History 
The University aims to achieve and maintain a secure environment for all persons on campus and to provide appropriate protection from theft and damage for all property, students, staff and visitors in accordance with all relevant Australian law and the lawful instructions of the University. In order to manage these responsibilities effectively, the University has adopted a Strategic Security Plan which provides for the development and allocation of technical and human security measures and the appropriate allocation of financial resources.
Security on all campuses is controlled centrally through Facilities Management (Security Section), responsible directly to the Director, Facilities Management, although security operations on each campus are run in close liaison with the relevant Campus Coordinator.
The Security Section has an extensive set of procedures in its 
Security Operating Procedures Manual
designed to contribute to the good management of QUT by providing security staff with a comprehensive guide to policies which will assist them in carrying out their duties. An 
Emergency Response Plan
is provided to building and floor wardens and is available on the 
Facilities Management Web Page
Top 
3.4.1 Building security design standards 
Guidelines and procedures relating to building security and issue of keys/electronic access are included on the 
Facilities Management Web Page
Top 
3.4.2 Access in and out of buildings 
The University is open every day to many individuals and groups who are involved on University business and who therefore have legitimate need for access to rooms and buildings. However, the University must also look to the security of its installations and assets, and seek to minimise opportunities for theft and damage to its property or harm to its students and staff. Electronic access through card swipe or pin number systems is available to some facilities. Prior to installation, a risk assessment is conducted and if installation is warranted, costs are met by the requesting organisational unit. A high security lock format is being systematically introduced across the University.
The Security Manager is responsible for key control procedures, and has the authority to recall keys and conduct key audits as considered appropriate to ensure the integrity of the University's keying system.
It is the responsibility of all members of staff, students or other persons to whom a University key or means of electronic access is issued to ensure its safe keeping. In addition, they have a duty to return their key or access card to the head of their organisational unit when ceasing employment with that unit or when completing the assignment or other activity for which it was provided.
It is the responsibility of the head of the organisational unit to ensure that keys and electronic access identification cards are retrieved from staff and students when they leave, are suspended, transfer, or no longer have a functional need to access an area.
If an organisational unit is relocating to another area or refurbishing their current premises, all
  of the old keys must be returned to the Facilities Management (Security Section) prior to the issue
  of new keys and electronic access must be terminated (see also 
B/7.2
Initial issue of keys
A master key system is designed for each building. Keys are issued by the Security Unit to each organisational unit only for the rooms or facilities that are occupied by that unit and only on receipt of a request in writing with the relevant authorisation.
Costs of lock and key issue
All requests for locks and the issue of keys, beyond those initially approved by the Security Manager, will be at the expense of the organisational unit, contractor or tenant making the request unless it is part of capital works, replacement due to fair wear and tear, or the proposed annual schedule of lock replacement.
If any issued key is lost or cannot be produced on demand, the total cost associated with repinning the locks to the areas compromised and providing replacement keys will be met by the responsibility centre. 
Issue of keys by organisational unit
Daily issue and control of keys to buildings is decentralised and is the responsibility of the head of the relevant organisational unit.
Top 
3.4.3 Emergency access 
Emergency access to all rooms and buildings can be gained at any time by contacting campus security personnel via the Central Monitoring Station on extension 85585 (or free call 1800 06 5585).
Top 
3.4.4 After hours access 
Staff and students are required to carry their QUT issued identity card at all times so that they can easily establish their identity after hours and therefore not be impeded in carrying out their programs of work and research.
Staff access
After hours building access may be arranged for any person provided with a room key, when it can be established to the satisfaction of the head of the organisational unit or delegated officer that access to the building is required after normal hours on a frequent basis.
Staff members who require after hours access to their workplace outside of this policy must make arrangements with their head of organisational unit or delegated officer to obtain the means of access. Spare keys available for temporary issue will be held by the organisational unit for this purpose.
Emergency access to a staff member's workplace is possible at any time.
Student access
Students may be granted after hours access by the head of the relevant school/department, who also must provide the student/s with the means of access to the areas authorised.
Contractor access
Contractors may be authorised by the responsible project manager to have after hours access to the University to work on a specific project. The authorising project manager will negotiate access with the user department and inform the relevant Campus Services administration of the access start/finish times to be provided to security staff.
Top 
3.4.5 Lost property 
The Campus Security Superintendent should be notified when personal or University property is lost or stolen. In the event that the lost/stolen item is recovered, the recorded owner will be contacted and may claim the property by signing for it as described on the incident report.
All stolen property enquiries should also be reported to the Queensland Police Service.
Property found on campus should be handed in at the relevant Campus Services section where details of the find will be recorded and the item held until claimed or sent for disposal after three months.
Top 
3.4.6 Cash handling policy 
The University has a moral and legal requirement to ensure the safety of all students and staff. With regard to security, this standard of safety can be maintained by the anticipation, recognition and appraisal of a crime risk and by taking steps to remove or reduce it.
Full details of the approved procedures related to the handling and movement of cash are available from the Security Manager.
Top 
3.4.7 Theft or wilful damage of property 
Criminal activity on campus should be reported to the QUT Security Section. All thefts or incidents of wilful damage involving QUT property will be reported to the Queensland Police Service by the University.
A QUT Security Incident Report will be completed by the Security Officer investigating the incident, and forwarded to Facilities Management (Security Section) for investigation and record purposes.
Top 
3.4.8 Weapons on campus 
QUT will not tolerate weapons on campus unless possession and
use of a weapon for university purposes has been authorised by
the head of the relevant organisational unit. Any item that falls
within the definition of a weapon under Section 5 of the
Weapons Act 1990
shall be deemed to be a weapon.
Possession of any unauthorised weapon on campus will be dealt
with as a breach of discipline for staff and an act of misconduct
by a student.
Top 
3.4.9 Emergency Procedures (fire, bomb threat, etc) 
An Emergency Response Plan has been developed by the Security Section and is provided to heads of organisational units and building and floor wardens. The information also is available on the 
Facilities Management
Web Page.
Staff in charge of a class are responsible for the evacuation of that class in an emergency.
Emergency Call Points
Some areas of the University are equipped with emergency call points placed at strategic locations to enhance personal safety. Inappropriate use of these public safety devices may attract severe penalties.
Top 
3.4.10 Counter Disaster Plan 
QUT has a Counter Disaster Plan for each campus to provide direction to persons who have a responsibility to respond to or undertake a role relating to any disaster or critical incident that may occur on the campus.
The University controller for any counter disaster response is the relevant Campus Security Superintendent or their nominated deputy, who is responsible for the direction and coordination of all activities and decisions pertaining to each incident. Responsibility for the management of a disaster or critical incident will be transferred to the relevant Emergency Service after consultation with the controller.
Details of procedures to be followed relating to notification and reporting of an incident, and relating to evacuation, assessment or training are available from the 
Facilities Management  Web Page
When a disaster or critical incident occurs, many people internally and externally, including media, seek timely information and an official QUT response. Information on media communication is contained in 
F/3.4
Top 
3.4.11 Closed circuit television policy 
QUT recognises that the threat and fear of personal violence is an important 
  factor in public perception of safety on campus. In an effort to address this, 
  closed circuit television (CCTV) has been introduced in some parts of the campus, 
  in order to enhance efforts to protect public safety in public places.
The aim of the QUT CCTV program, which operates overtly in public places, 
  is to assist in the prevention of crimes against people or property. The objectives 
  are:
to reduce crime by deterring potential offenders
to reduce fear of crime
to help ensure a fast, effective investigative response in crime situations
to assist in the detection and prosecution of offenders
to help promote a safer environment for people who visit, work or study 
    on QUT's campuses.
Use of a CCTV system in a public place is based on the following principles:
The system must strike an appropriate balance between the personal privacy 
    of individuals using the campus and the objective of preventing crime. The 
    system will be operated in accordance with QUT's Information privacy policy (see 
F/6.2
) and with due regard to the 
    civil liberties of individual members of the University community and public.
The system will be operated fairly, within applicable law, and only for 
    the purposes for which it is established, ie to deter and detect crime in 
    public places.
The Security Manager is responsible for the management of the University's 
    CCTV system. This includes the maintenance and operation of the system as 
    well as the protection of the privacy interests of individual members of the 
    University community and the public from intrusive monitoring.
Access to the CCTV system and to the captured images will be restricted 
    to authorised staff involving in monitoring or investigation. Images and recorded 
    material will be kept no longer than is necessary for the purposes of the 
    program. They will then be recorded over or destroyed in accordance with the 
    disposal schedule authorised by Queensland State Archives.
Contact between QUT and the Queensland Police Service related to the CCTV 
    system will be conducted strictly in accordance with set protocols.
Procedures relating to CCTV on campus are contained in the 
Security Operating 
  Procedures
maintained by the Security Section.
Top 
Modification History 
Date
Sections
Source
Details
   24.11.10 
   All
  Planning and Resources Committee
   Approval authority changed to Registrar
   07.10.10 
   All
   Governance Services
   Policy revised to reflect change from privacy policy to information privacy 
14.11.05
All
Planning and Resources Committee
Policy updated
18.02.05
H/3.4.10
Security Manager
Updated
20.12.01
All
Director - Facilities Management
Updated
17.12.01
H/3.4.11
Vice-Chancellor
New Policy
10.03.00
H/3.4.7
Security Manager
Updated
02.03.99
H/3.4.10
MOPP Officer
Included information on media communication
Top 
    Chapter A | Chapter B | Chapter C | Chapter D | Chapter E | Chapter F | Chapter G | Chapter H | Chapter I | Appendices | Protocol for MOPP Policy | Recent Updates
    QUT Home | MOPP Home
    CRICOS No. 00213J
    Privacy | Copyright | Accessibility
    Last modified 30-Nov-2010
    Contact us | Feedback | Disclaimer
