QUT | MOPP | H/3.5 University Bookshop
            QUT&nbsp;Home
          Contact&nbsp;us
          Search
      MOPP Home
      Protocol for MOPP Policy
      Recent Updates
      H/3.5 University Bookshop
Chapters
A - Governance/Organisation
B - Human Resources
C - Learning/Teaching
D - Research/Development
E - Student Administration
F - Information Management
G - Financial Management
H - Physical Facilities
I - International/Community
MOPP Appendices
MOPP Protocol
MOPP Updates
[Print-friendly version]
Contact OfficerManager, University Bookshop 
Approval Date14/11/2005 
Approval AuthorityRegistrar 
Date of Next Review01/07/2009 
3.5.1 Goals and objectives 
3.5.2 Refund policy 
3.5.3 Sale of QUT publications through University Bookshop 
Modification History 
The University Bookshop group is conducted as a self-supporting, semi-autonomous commercial entity fully owned and operated by the University. Bookshop operations fall under the direction of the Director, Facilities Management. A substantial portion of the Bookshop's annual profit is paid into the QUT Development Fund. Funds from this account are utilised for capital infrastructure and maintenance within the University. 
There is a University Bookshop located on each campus with Gardens Point taking on the role of central receiving point and head office. Information regarding Bookshop operations including trading hours, contact details, products and services offered, and methods of ordering and payment are available on the Bookshop website ( 
http://www.bookshop.qut.edu.au
The Bookshop liaises extensively with academic staff to compile the student booklist, which details the prescribed and recommended textbooks and course notes for each course of study offered. The booklist is accessible to QUT students via their Personal Profile within QUT Virtual. 
Top 
3.5.1 Goals and objectives 
The University Bookshop's goals are to: 
supply the QUT campus community with products and services to the extent 
    the Bookshop is the prime service provider of choice in relation to products 
    offered
ensure that profit levels are sufficient to cover Bookshop operational expenses 
    and capital requirements as well as the annual profit contribution to the 
    QUT Development Fund. 
Top 
3.5.2 Refund policy 
Refunds are given in accordance with government regulations pertaining to refund policy (refer to 
Fair Trading Act 
and 
Competition and Consumer Act
). Information regarding the legal right to refunds is available at: 
http://www.fairtrading.qld.gov.au/consumer-rights.htm
or through the Office of Fair Trading and Consumer Affairs ( Queensland ). Further details are available on the 
Facilities Management Web Page 
Top 
3.5.3 Sale of QUT publications through University Bookshop 
All internally produced course material which is available for sale to students shall be sold through 
the University Bookshop and not through individual schools.
Copyright 
QUT is licensed under the Copyright Agency Limited (CAL) to make multiple copies of certain amounts of 
print material for teaching and administrative purposes - see 
F/5.1
and the 
QUT Copyright Guide
. Any 
 queries about material to be copied should be directed to the University Copyright Officer, Division of 
 Technology, Information and Learning Support.
Course notes 
Copies of course notes are to be made available only to QUT students through the QUT Bookshop. One copy 
only will be available to each student, and student ID will be required at the shop point of sale. 
Course notes cannot be a source of profit making. This is a stipulation of the CAL agreement, complied 
with by QUT. 
Pricing 
The Bookshop will add a flat $3.50 handling fee to the printing cost recovery on each publication. In 
addition, there will be a charge per page copied under licence of approximately $0.05, as a partial cost 
recovery of the royalties paid to CAL . Thus in the case of a course pack containing 100 pages of copyright 
material, a further $5.00 will be added to the price. 
Payments to schools 
Twice yearly, usually June and December, schools will be reimbursed by the Bookshop, to the account code
 quoted on the printing requisition, on the basis of 'number of publications sold x cost per unit'. 
Return of stock 
All unsold publications will be returned to schools unless they are specified as being required in a 
following semester. 
Quality of presentation 
A consistent standard of quality for QUT publications must be maintained. QUT Printing Services advises 
responsibility centres of material which will reproduce poorly or is unreadable, and of remedial 
possibilities. Where staff insist on authorising the printing of substandard material, the head of the 
responsibility centre is notified so that appropriate action may be taken for subsequent editions. 
Production and delivery to Bookshop 
All internally produced course material which is available for sale to students shall be printed by 
QUT Printing Services and not through individual schools. QUT Printing Services will deliver the completed 
material to the Bookshop and any additional copies to the school with relevant costing information.
Top 
Modification History 
Date
Sections
Source
Details
   24.11.10
   All 
   Planning and Resources Committee 
   Approval authority changed to Registrar
14.11.05
All 
Planning and Resources Committee 
Revised policy 
19.04.02
All 
Bookshop Manager
Updated
Top 
    Chapter A | Chapter B | Chapter C | Chapter D | Chapter E | Chapter F | Chapter G | Chapter H | Chapter I | Appendices | Protocol for MOPP Policy | Recent Updates
    QUT Home | MOPP Home
    CRICOS No. 00213J
    Privacy | Copyright | Accessibility
    Last modified 11-Feb-2011
    Contact us | Feedback | Disclaimer
