QUT | MOPP | H/3.2 Property
            QUT&nbsp;Home
          Contact&nbsp;us
          Search
      MOPP Home
      Protocol for MOPP Policy
      Recent Updates
      H/3.2 Property
Chapters
A - Governance/Organisation
B - Human Resources
C - Learning/Teaching
D - Research/Development
E - Student Administration
F - Information Management
G - Financial Management
H - Physical Facilities
I - International/Community
MOPP Appendices
MOPP Protocol
MOPP Updates
[Print-friendly version]
Contact OfficerDirector, Facilities Management 
Approval Date14/11/2005 
Approval AuthorityPlanning and Resources Committee 
Date of Next Review01/07/2009 
3.2.1 Purchase of property 
3.2.2 Disposal of University property 
3.2.3 Leasing of property by the University 
3.2.4 Leasing of University property 
3.2.5 Hire of physical facilities 
Related Documents 
Modification History 
As a body corporate under the 
Queensland University of Technology
    Act 1998
(QUT Act) , the University may own property (whether
    situated in Queensland or elsewhere) through purchase, taking on lease, or
    acquiring by grant. Such property may also be sold, leased, transferred or
surrendered to the Crown (see QUT Act and the definition of 'property' in 
H/2.1.1
In all instances, formal approval must be given by Facilities Management
  on behalf of the University prior to the installation of any equipment (eg
  aerials, satellite dishes, structures) on, at or about University property
  (see 
H/3.2.4
Any changes to University property, whether owned, leased or rented, must
  be recorded on the Fixed Assets Register and the Space Management System.
Top 
3.2.1 Purchase of property 
Approval to purchase property is granted by Council. Subject to availability
  of funds within approved budget limits and consistent with the University's
  plans, Council has delegated authority to the Vice-Chancellor and various senior
  officers to commit funds on behalf of the University (see 
Appendix 3
). All purchases of land are to be notified to the Director,
Corporate Finance.
Real estate
In accordance with this approval and after consideration of an independent
  valuation of a property and the vendor's asking price, the Director, Facilities
  Management will set the maximum amount to be offered for the property. This
  amount cannot be exceeded without further executive approval.
Where it is decided that title of the property is to be surrendered to the
  Crown (see 
H/3.1.1
  a formal application over the signature of the Registrar is made to the relevant
  State Government Department.
Other forms of property
Purchase processes relating to other forms of property are detailed in 
G/5.3
and 
H/4.2
Top 
3.2.2 Disposal of University property 
Real estate
Where the University identifies property surplus to requirements, Council
  authorises the Director, Facilities Management to have the land disclosed on
  the State Government Register, which enables other public sector agencies to
  make a bid for the property.
In the event that the land is not required by another public sector agency,
  a broader marketing program can be implemented and the land disposed of to
  the best tender.
Where the property for disposal is Crown land, the distribution of the sale
  proceeds, whether it is to another public sector agency or to a private buyer,
  is determined by Treasury in accordance with State Government policy.
Other forms of property
Disposal processes relating to other forms of property are detailed in 
G/3.1
Top 
3.2.3 Leasing of property by the University 
Real estate
Following approval of the need to lease property, the Director, Facilities
  Management designates an officer, assisted by a consultant if required, to
  negotiate and manage the leasing process on behalf of the University.
At the conclusion of the leasing process, the designated officer ensures
  that details of the leased property are provided to Finance and Resource Planning
  for reporting purposes.. The Director, Facilities Management is responsible
  for the ongoing administration of QUT leases on external property (ie rent
  reviews, lease renewals, payment of rents and other charges).
Other forms of property
The approval of the Director, Corporate Finance is required before any commitment
  is made in relation to the leasing of other forms of property (see 
G/3.1
Top 
3.2.4 Leasing of University property 
Leasing of University property by external bodies is arranged on a commercial
  basis by the Director, Facilities Management. The property being leased can
  include such things as roof space for telecommunication infrastructure, areas
  within laboratories, etc. Depending on the length and complexity of the lease/licence,
  a formal agreement is drawn up by the University's solicitors and agreed with
the external organisation.
Generally, the lessee/licencee is responsible for the payment of all ongoing
  charges (ie power, telephone etc) associated with the premises. Rental is based
  on commercial rents currently charged to existing tenants or, where no similar
  rental space is available on campus, in accordance with what is charged in
  the local area. Depending on the benefit to QUT, a rental less than the market
  rate may be charged. The level of rent to be charged is approved by the Executive
  Director, Finance and Resource Planning. Net rental income after management
  expenses is credited to the overheads responsibility centre.
Following the signing of a lease agreement, the Director , Facilities Management
  ensures that details of the lease are recorded in the register of leases.
Top 
3.2.5 Hire of physical facilities 
The proposed use of University facilities by  individuals, groups or organisations external to the University must be  compatible with the University's vision and goals (see A/2.1 ) and must comply  with health and safety legislation and any relevant University policy and  related procedures. Requests for hire of general teaching and community spaces,  or for any use of buildings or external areas for film production by external  persons or organisations, must be approved by the Associate Director - Campus  Services.
The University's requirements for rooms and  facilities take precedence over their use by external persons, groups or  bodies. No adjustments to the academic timetable are made to accommodate  external use except in those exceptional circumstances specifically approved through  the Associate Director - Campus Services. Facilities close to examination  venues will not be available for hire whilst examinations are in progress.
Application forms and other information,  including rates of hire and booking procedures, are available from Campus  Services. Campus Services also processes hire forms on behalf of responsibility  centres.
Special conditions  applying to the serving of alcohol
The hirer is required to comply with  University policy and guidelines on the use of alcohol at functions (see H/3.6.4 ).  A copy of the policy and guidelines must be provided to all applicants with the  Application for Hire of University Facilities form.
Alcoholic beverages may not be sold for  consumption on any University property unless an appropriate liquor licence as  issued under the Liquor Act is  obtained and a copy lodged with the Timetabling Manager not less than 24 hours  before the commencement of the hire. The hirer is required to ensure that all  alcoholic beverages are consumed only within the facilities nominated in the  Agreement for Hire of University Facilities and only within the time nominated  in that agreement.
Where alcohol is to be sold at functions, the  hirers are required to engage crowd controllers for the duration of the  activity and at least one hour beyond its ceasing time. A minimum of two crowd  controllers is required for the first 100 attendees, and one crowd controller  for every additional 100 attendees or part thereof is required. Expected crowd  numbers and crowd control details are to be provided at the time of submitting  the completed facilities booking form. A similar requirement may be imposed at  the discretion of the Timetabling Manager for other functions where alcohol is  provided without charge.
Functions organised or sponsored by the Student Guild or other student  groups will be required to comply with the requirements for crowd control where alcohol is to be consumed.
Top 
Related Documents 
MOPP G/3.1 Asset policy
MOPP H/3.6 Food services, catering and alcohol
MOPP H/6.2 Cleaning
&nbsp;
Top 
Modification History 
Date
Sections
Source
Details
  17.05.07
  H/3.2.5
  Vice-Chancellor
  Policy updated relating to  functions organised by Student Guild and other student groups
4.11.06
H/3.2.5
Registrar
Minor administrative  amendment relating to use of QUT facilities by external organisations
14.11.05
All
Planning and Resources Committee
Policy updated
20.12.01
All
Director - Facilities Management
Updated
Top 
    Chapter A | Chapter B | Chapter C | Chapter D | Chapter E | Chapter F | Chapter G | Chapter H | Chapter I | Appendices | Protocol for MOPP Policy | Recent Updates
    QUT Home | MOPP Home
    CRICOS No. 00213J
    Privacy | Copyright | Accessibility
    Last modified 13-May-2010
    Contact us | Feedback | Disclaimer
