QUT | MOPP | H/3.1 Site
            QUT&nbsp;Home
          Contact&nbsp;us
          Search
      MOPP Home
      Protocol for MOPP Policy
      Recent Updates
      H/3.1 Site
Chapters
A - Governance/Organisation
B - Human Resources
C - Learning/Teaching
D - Research/Development
E - Student Administration
F - Information Management
G - Financial Management
H - Physical Facilities
I - International/Community
MOPP Appendices
MOPP Protocol
MOPP Updates
[Print-friendly version]
Contact OfficerAssociate Director - Campus Services, Facilities Management 
Approval Date14/11/2005 
Approval AuthorityRegistrar 
Date of Next Review01/07/2009 
3.1.1 Land 
3.1.2 Site services 
3.1.3 Entry to site 
3.1.4 Parking and traffic 
3.1.5 Parking for people with disabilities 
3.1.6 Events and noise 
3.1.7 Signage 
3.1.8 Posting of notices 
3.1.9 Unauthorised animals on campus 
Modification History 
QUT's physical environment comprises all land vested in or under the management
  or control of the University together with all buildings and structures of
  any kind on such lands. It also includes those services (eg water, energy,
  communications etc) which enable the site to function effectively. For definition
  of specific terminology used in this section, ie 
site
property
space
see 
H/2.1.1
The University is sited on three separate locations in Brisbane (ie Gardens
  Point, Kelvin Grove and Carseldine campuses) and also utilises several leased
  areas in the Brisbane area and in Caboolture.
Site plans and site services plans for each of QUT's campuses are maintained
  by Facilities Management (Standards and Records Section).
Health and safety
Health and safety requirements related to facilities management are described
  in the following sections or an appropriate reference is provided, eg the website
  for Health and Safety Advisory Services (Human Resources Department). Specific
  issues are covered in 
A/9
Top 
3.1.1 Land 
QUT operates on three campuses in Brisbane . A substantial part of the land
  occupied by the University is Crown land issued under either a deed of grant
  in trust or as a designated reserve, with the University Council being the
trustee.
The University may from time to time acquire further land that, because of
  the conditions of acquisition, would remain freehold. However, it is common
  practice when it acquires land in freehold to surrender this to the Crown and
  have it annexed to the existing reserve so that the acquired land enjoys the
  same status as the remainder of the University land (see
H/3.2.1
Top 
3.1.2 Site services 
The University has adopted a set of design guidelines in relation to site
  services (see 
H/4.1
which sets out the minimum requirements for such services.
In addition, the University has adopted a detailed maintenance policy for
  its property, including its physical systems, operating plant and equipment,
  in accordance with legislative, health and safety, and financial constraints
  (see 
H/6.1
Maintenance, expansion and upgrading of voice and data communication infrastructure
  is the responsibility of the Division of Technology, Information and Learning
  Support. 
  Policy and other details relating to electronic data communications and information
  technology services are in 
F/1
Grounds and landscaping
A landscape master plan is prepared for each of the University's campuses.
  It is recognised that each campus has its own unique character, however unifying
  themes are established across the University through the use of common elements
  such as corporate signage, street furniture, external lighting, and colours.
Guidelines related to landscaping, materials and finishes, services, signage
  etc for inclusion in new and refurbishment works, and maintenance programmes
  are determined by Facilities Management, drawing on the Landscape Master Plan
  and Landscape Maintenance Manuals.
Top 
3.1.3 Entry to site 
Under the provisions of the 
Queensland Technology Act 1998
(QUT
  Act), particularly Schedule 1 concerning Control of Traffic and Conduct on
  University Land, the University may regulate and control access to QUT property
  as well as the conduct of persons and the presence and use of vehicles on that
property.
Top 
3.1.4 Parking and traffic 
Parking is restricted on all campuses due to a shortage of parking spaces,
  particularly at the Gardens Point and Kelvin Grove campuses. Parking for all
  vehicles is administered by the Parking Office within Facilities Management
  using a system of permit parking. Parking regulations on campus are enforced
  under the QUT Act - Schedule 1, Part 2. Further details and application forms
  are available from the 
Facilities
Management
web page.
Bicycles must be parked in approved bicycle racks where it is recommended
  that they be secured with D clamps. For safety, and to protect University property,
  bicycles are not permitted in buildings, building foyers or elevators.
Top 
3.1.5 Parking for people with disabilities 
People who hold a current blue Queensland Transport disability sticker are
  entitled to free parking on campus. Further details are available in the Parking
  Policy on the 
 Facilities Management
web
  page. . Further information on support provided by the University for students
  with disabilities is contained in the 
 Guide
for Students with Disabilities
Top 
3.1.6 Events and noise 
Approval for on-campus concerts and other events using licensed clubs or
  community facilities on any single campus will be at the discretion of the
  Associate Director - Campus Services, taking into account the nature of the
  activity, day of the week, start and finish times, security arrangements and
the potential impact the event may have on routine operations.
The following guidelines to the number of events normally apply -
outdoor concerts on any single campus - maximum of one per week
indoor events in licensed club facilities on any single campus - maximum
    of two per week.
Noise levels from all concerts and other activities must be in accordance
  with guidelines provided by the University and/or statutory regulating bodies.
Bookings for concerts must be made in advance to the Associate Director -
  Campus Services, and will be subject to all policies and procedures applying
  to the hire of facilities (see 
H/3.2.5
  including the policy on the use of alcohol at QUT (see
H/3.6.4
Top 
3.1.7 Signage 
Standards for official signs are prescribed in the QUT Corporate Identity
  Manual. It is important that the manual be strictly followed, especially in
  regard to the use of the QUT logo, which is a registered Trade Mark. Published
  standards are essential for providing consistency and to present a single visual
identity for the University.
All signage is produced according to detailed guidelines and all enquiries should
be directed to Facilities Management (Capital Works Section).
Top 
3.1.8 Posting of notices 
Noticeboards are provided in a number of locations throughout the campuses to  facilitate the posting of official and general interest notices for the  information of the campus population. Unless a  noticeboard is attributed by signage to a specific purpose (such as for  official notices or faculty related material), it may be used to display  general notices, provided that the material displayed is consistent with public  standards and does not breach anti-discrimination legislation.
  Advertising material and other notices should not be posted on painted  surfaces, floors, walls, doors, windows etc. Chalking on walls, passage ways,  footpaths etc is similarly not permitted and cleaning staff are under  instructions to remove any notices or chalking that do not comply with these  guidelines. In addition, the individuals or organisations responsible for the  display of the material will be charged for the time spent in removal and any  necessary restoration of the surface.
The hand distribution of pamphlets,  brochures or other advertising material on campus must first be approved by  Facilities Management (Campus Services) as past experience has shown that much  of this material ends up as litter. Approval will only be provided if the  material is of direct relevance to the University&rsquo;s activities and the contents  are compliant with anti-discrimination legislation.
Top 
3.1.9 Unauthorised animals on campus 
There would be few circumstances where animals should be permitted on campus
  other than those currently licensed to be retained under special controlled
  circumstances. Animals carry their own disease and parasitic risks. These risks
  should not be imposed on QUT colleagues, some of whom may be immunosuppressed
or are at special risk, whether such state is currently known or not.
The Associate Director - Campus Services will consider all the factors to
  determine whether approval to bring animals onto campus should be granted.
  Registered Guide Dogs will receive approval on all campuses.
Top 
Modification History 
Date
Sections
Source
Details
  24.11.10
  All
  Planning and Resources Committee
  Approval authority changed to Registrar
  17.05.07
  H/3.1.8
  Vice-Chancellor
  Policy updated to remove  references to Student Guild noticeboards and activities
14.11.05
All
Planning and Resources Committee
Policy updated
16.11.04
H/3.1.4
Registrar
Revised policy (re bicycle parking)
20.12.01
All
Director - Facilities Management
Updated
Top 
    Chapter A | Chapter B | Chapter C | Chapter D | Chapter E | Chapter F | Chapter G | Chapter H | Chapter I | Appendices | Protocol for MOPP Policy | Recent Updates
    QUT Home | MOPP Home
    CRICOS No. 00213J
    Privacy | Copyright | Accessibility
    Last modified 30-Nov-2010
    Contact us | Feedback | Disclaimer
