QUT | MOPP | H/3.3 Buildings and accommodation
            QUT&nbsp;Home
          Contact&nbsp;us
          Search
      MOPP Home
      Protocol for MOPP Policy
      Recent Updates
      H/3.3 Buildings and accommodation
Chapters
A - Governance/Organisation
B - Human Resources
C - Learning/Teaching
D - Research/Development
E - Student Administration
F - Information Management
G - Financial Management
H - Physical Facilities
I - International/Community
MOPP Appendices
MOPP Protocol
MOPP Updates
[Print-friendly version]
Contact OfficerAssociate Director - Campus Services, Facilities Management 
Approval Date14/11/2005 
Approval AuthorityRegistrar 
Date of Next Review01/07/2009 
3.3.1 Naming of University buildings, parts of buildings 
3.3.2 Allocation and utilisation of space 
3.3.3 Open office and workplace planning 
3.3.4 General teaching space allocation 
3.3.5 Student Guild accommodation 
3.3.6 Community buildings 
3.3.7 Vending machines 
3.3.8 Child care centres 
3.3.9 Furniture, furnishings and fittings 
Modification History 
The 
Queensland University of Technology Act
1998
provides the 
  University with the right to regulate and control the use of land and buildings 
  classified as QUT property. The Asset Management Plan (see 
H/2.1
  provides for the most effective utilisation of University sites within financial 
  and operational constraints through the strategic placement of organisational 
  units and the allocation of space according to the recognised need to maintain 
  high-quality teaching, research and administrative facilities.
Top 
3.3.1 Naming of University buildings, parts of buildings 
Council has determined that, in naming buildings and parts of buildings, due 
  regard be given to persons who have been associated prominently with the University, 
  including major financial contributors. Council intends that names only be considered 
  as the occasion arises or otherwise warrants.
Council has delegated authority to the Vice-Chancellor to
approve the naming of University buildings (see 
Appendix 3
Top 
3.3.2 Allocation and utilisation of space 
The Executive Director, Finance and Resource Planning is responsible for strategic space allocation across all campuses and liaises closely with the Director, Facilities Management.
When an area is constructed, whether it be a new or refurbished area, allocation of that space is made to an organisational unit (faculty or division) in accordance with the University's Asset Management Plan (see 
H/2.1.7
). However, any general teaching space or Asset Management Plan funded meeting room (12 seats or more) within that area is to be allocated to the Campus Services Section. Faculty and Divisional funded meeting rooms (12 seats or more) are to be made available for general use through QUT Diary.
The head of the organisational unit is responsible for the efficient utilisation of space allocated to that unit. Space not allocated to a broad organisational unit, eg general teaching space, is allocated to Campus Services who are responsible for the efficient utilisation of such spaces through timetabling and room allocation.
Any change in allocation or use of an area must be notified for inclusion on the Space Management System (see 
H/2.1.8
) and approved by the Executive Director, Finance and Resource Planning as consistent with strategic space allocation.
When an organisational unit is provided with new or refurbished space in a new location, the space which is vacated will be reallocated by the Executive Director, Finance and Resource Planning. Any case for retention of the space by the vacating unit will be considered in competition with other space demands.
Statistical requirements
The Space Management System records and maintains statistical data relating to the characterisation of rooms and buildings owned or used by the University. The data is used within the University for capital planning purposes, and is also required from time to time by DEEWR to satisfy reporting criteria through Division of Finance and Resource Planning.
Within the University, data from the Space Management System is integrated with a range of other data, such as staff FTE (full-time equivalence) and EFTSL (student load) to provide strategic level planning parameters.
Top 
3.3.3 Open office and workplace planning 
The University recognises the importance of providing appropriate workspace 
  and believes that open office planning will be of direct advantage to the University.
An open office plan refers to an office or work area which has limited partitioning 
  (walls) to subdivide work areas and functions. Workstations normally have low-height 
  screen dividers to partially separate individual workstations and where individual 
  offices are provided, walls opening onto adjacent work areas are largely glazed.
Details on the application of this policy are provided in 
QUT Design Standards 
  and Guidelines
Top 
3.3.4 General teaching space allocation 
While faculties are responsible for the preparation of the academic timetable, Campus Services allocates the teaching space to meet requirements of the timetable (see 
E/5.1
). Room allocation for examinations controlled by the Student Business Services Department takes precedence over other uses.
Top 
3.3.5 Student Guild accommodation 
The Student Guild, although a separate legal  entity from the University, is an integral part of the University community.  The Guild and its officers are responsible for the implementation of health and  safety and other legislation relevant to its operation and occupation of  University space. The allocation of space for Guild activities will be through formal agreements which may be negotiated from time to time.
Top 
3.3.6 Community buildings 
The community buildings on all campuses come under the control of the Associate Director - Campus Services.
Various tenants lease space in the community buildings on all campuses, and control of those leased areas is vested in the tenant. The Director, Facilities Management is responsible for the letting of space in these buildings.
Top 
3.3.7 Vending machines 
All vending machines located on University property are managed through the Business Services Committee within Facilities Management Department, which enters into formal agreements for the placement and operation of the machines by commercial operators.
The number and location of vending machines is subject to approval by the Business Services Committee and any proposals for additional vending machines must be made through the Manager, Bookshops and Catering Services.
Top 
3.3.8 Child care centres 
Although the University is not directly involved in the delivery of child care services, it places importance on the availability of such services for its students and staff (see 
A/8.8
Top 
3.3.9 Furniture, furnishings and fittings 
Standards and guidelines related to the provision of furniture, furnishings and fittings for inclusion in new and refurbishment works are included in the 
QUT Design Standards and Guidelines
and the 
Facilities Management
Web Page. These standards and guidelines are also applicable to replacement of furniture, furnishings and fittings.
Allowance is made within the overall budget for new and refurbishment works included in the University's Asset Management Plan for furniture, furnishings and fittings which are appropriate for the project. Decisions as to the extent of new furniture and the extent of re-use of existing or re-conditioned furniture will take place following consultation between users and the project manager. The final determination, if necessary, will be made by the Director - Facilities Management following consultation with the Executive Director, Finance and Resource Planning in respect of approval of a project budget.
For works funded from other sources, a similar process will be adopted.
Purchase
All furniture, furnishings and fittings must be purchased in accordance with University policy (see 
Financial Management Practice and Procedures Manual
, Chapter 4), and become thereby the property of the University.
Guidelines and information to assist in the selection and purchase of furniture and fittings are available on the 
Facilities Management
Web Page.
Disposal of surplus furniture
Guidelines and information to assist in the disposal of furniture and fittings are available on the 
Facilities Management
Web Page.
Top 
Modification History 
Date
Sections
Source
Details
  24.11.10
  All
  Planning and Resources Committee
  Approval authority changed to Registrar
  17.05.07
  H/3.3.5
  Vice-Chancellor
  Policy updated relating to allocation  of space for Student Guild
14.11.05
All
Planning and Resources Committee
Policy updated
20.12.01
All
Director - Facilities Management
Updated
10.05.01
H/3.3.1
Development Office
Updated (to delete reference to QUT Foundation)
Top 
    Chapter A | Chapter B | Chapter C | Chapter D | Chapter E | Chapter F | Chapter G | Chapter H | Chapter I | Appendices | Protocol for MOPP Policy | Recent Updates
    QUT Home | MOPP Home
    CRICOS No. 00213J
    Privacy | Copyright | Accessibility
    Last modified 30-Nov-2010
    Contact us | Feedback | Disclaimer
