QUT | MOPP | H/3.6 Food services, catering and alcohol
            QUT&nbsp;Home
          Contact&nbsp;us
          Search
      MOPP Home
      Protocol for MOPP Policy
      Recent Updates
      H/3.6 Food services, catering and alcohol
Chapters
A - Governance/Organisation
B - Human Resources
C - Learning/Teaching
D - Research/Development
E - Student Administration
F - Information Management
G - Financial Management
H - Physical Facilities
I - International/Community
MOPP Appendices
MOPP Protocol
MOPP Updates
[Print-friendly version]
Contact OfficerDirector, Facilities Management 
Approval Date14/11/2005 
Approval AuthorityRegistrar 
Date of Next Review01/07/2009 
3.6.1 Catering services 
3.6.2 Meetings, functions and external catering 
3.6.3 Licensed facilities 
3.6.4 Policy on use of alcohol 
Related Documents 
Modification History 
3.6.1 Catering services 
Facilities Management is responsible for the provision of catering services on all QUT sites.
Services are delivered through a variety of outlets including:
refectories
coffee shops
vending equipment
mobile carts
Trading hours
Where possible, refectory and coffee shop hours are coordinated with scheduled classes but do vary according to the campus and outlet, and the economic realities of business operations may mean that some classes are not catered for.
Top 
3.6.2 Meetings, functions and external catering 
The caterer who operates the refectory facility on each campus has preferential
  catering rights for the seating area that forms part of the refectory. Subject
  to the guidelines provided by Finance and Resource Planning in respect of providing
  hospitality and the purchase of catering (see 
G/5.6
  there are no other restrictions upon the choice of caterer, whether internal
  or external, for meetings and functions. An exception is the Gardens Theatre
  and Art Museum, where the operator of the catering outlet in X Block has “first
  right of refusal”. Further details are available in the Catering Guidelines
  on the 
Facilities Management Web Page
  Appropriate arrangements must be made with Campus Services where external caterers
  require car parking on the site in order to cater for a function or event.
Top 
3.6.3 Licensed facilities 
There are a number of Student Guild operated and privately operated outlets on QUT campuses which are licensed to serve alcohol and are subject to relevant legislation. In addition, QUT has established specific policy and regulations for persons accepting responsibility for organising functions on University premises at which alcohol will be available and for persons serving alcohol at functions on University premises - see 
H/3.6.4
below.
Top 
3.6.4 Policy on use of alcohol 
QUT is committed to combating problems arising from alcohol use and to providing the community with 
model behaviours as an employer and an educator. It encourages and promotes moderation in and a 
responsible attitude towards the use of alcohol in the University community through the generation of 
policy statements and the vigorous implementation of regulations for consumption.
The bringing, keeping or consuming of alcohol on any University site must be in accordance with the 
requirements of the Liquor Act and relevant University regulations, and will be effectively policed by 
Campus Coordinators or their delegates.
The University is committed to the development of on-going educative, research and evaluation, and 
training programs with regard to alcohol use where required both within and without course structures.
The University is committed to ensuring the availability of a confidential and non-judgemental 
treatment response for staff and students with alcohol-related problems through the provision of 
appropriately-trained in-house support and/or external referral.
The University endorses the National Health Policy on Alcohol in Australia as adopted by the Australian 
Government's Ministerial Council on Drug Strategy.
Regulations concerning alcohol use at functions
Any scheduled or organised event, where admission is to be charged or which is advertised publicly 
and where it is intended to serve alcohol, must be registered with the Campus Coordinator before the 
event and should be conducted within the following regulations. These same regulations apply to hirers 
of University facilities where alcohol is to be provided or sold.
If the function includes the sale of alcoholic beverages, a permit must be obtained from the 
  relevant licensing and University authorities and subject to compliance with these regulations.
Individuals sponsoring the event must implement precautionary measures to ensure that alcoholic 
  beverages are not accessible or served to persons under-age or who appear intoxicated.
At social functions where alcoholic beverages are provided by the sponsoring organisations, direct 
  access should be limited to persons designated and trained (where possible) as servers.
Consumption of alcoholic beverages should be permitted only within the approved area designated for 
  the event.
A variety of attractive high quality non-alcoholic beverages must be available at the same place as 
  the alcoholic beverages and featured as prominently as the alcoholic beverages.
A reasonable portion of the budget for the event should be designated for the purchase of a variety 
  of attractive high quality food items which must be displayed prominently.
Advertising for any University event where alcoholic beverages are served shall mention the 
  availability of a variety of non-alcoholic beverages as prominently as alcoholic beverages. Alcohol 
  should not be used as an inducement to participate in a University event.
No social event shall include any invitation to excess consumption of alcohol in its activities or 
  promotion, either explicitly or implicitly.
Promotional materials including advertising for any event shall not make reference to the amount of 
  alcoholic beverages (eg beer kegs) available.
At all events, an appropriate standard of conduct must be maintained, property
and the safety of persons must be protected, littering must be minimised, and
noise restrictions applying must be observed.
Top 
Related Documents 
MOPP G/5.6 Hospitality and catering policy
MOPP H/3.2.5 Hire of physical facilities
MOPP H/6.2.2 Catering in teaching spaces
Top 
Modification History 
Date
Sections
Source
Details
   24.11.10
   All
   Planning and Resources Committee
   Approval authority changed to Registrar
14.11.05
All
Planning and Resources Committee
Policy Updated
08.04.03
All
Registrar
Updated
Top 
    Chapter A | Chapter B | Chapter C | Chapter D | Chapter E | Chapter F | Chapter G | Chapter H | Chapter I | Appendices | Protocol for MOPP Policy | Recent Updates
    QUT Home | MOPP Home
    CRICOS No. 00213J
    Privacy | Copyright | Accessibility
    Last modified 30-Nov-2010
    Contact us | Feedback | Disclaimer
