QUT | MOPP | H/4.3 Project management system and responsibilities
            QUT&nbsp;Home
          Contact&nbsp;us
          Search
      MOPP Home
      Protocol for MOPP Policy
      Recent Updates
      H/4.3 Project management system and responsibilities
Chapters
A - Governance/Organisation
B - Human Resources
C - Learning/Teaching
D - Research/Development
E - Student Administration
F - Information Management
G - Financial Management
H - Physical Facilities
I - International/Community
MOPP Appendices
MOPP Protocol
MOPP Updates
[Print-friendly version]
Contact OfficerAssociate Director - Capital Works, Facilities Management 
Approval Date14/11/2005 
Approval AuthorityRegistrar 
Date of Next Review01/07/2009 
4.3.1 Project manager 
4.3.2 Design team 
4.3.3 Project Control Group 
4.3.4 User group 
Modification History 
QUT uses a project management approach for the management of its capital works and larger maintenance projects.
For each project, the Associate Director - Capital Works or Associate Director - Operations nominates a specific QUT Project Coordinator to coordinate and manage the entire project and to act as the point of contact for all persons with an interest in the project.
During the design phase of projects, Facilities Management stakeholders with responsibility for operating the building review the design of buildings and services.
Details of the policies and procedures relating to the delivery of projects by Facilities Management are contained on the 
Facilities Management Web Page
Top 
4.3.1 Project manager 
The project manager is responsible for complete management of the assigned 
  project including financial control, job programming, and reporting as necessary 
  to external authorities. These responsibilities also include the preparation 
  of the outline design brief prior to commencement of design development.
The Project Control Group and User Groups may be chaired by
the project manager or nominee who ensures that the relevant
information is made available to the design team.
Top 
4.3.2 Design team 
The production of a design solution acceptable to all parties
concerned shall be the responsibility of a design team.
Membership of the design team typically will include
the project manager
the principal consultant and all other consultants - a construction management 
    consultant may be appointed to advise the team of efficiencies and economies 
    available in the building process
QUT representatives as required including the project coordinator and other 
    staff appropriate to the project.
Meetings of the design team shall be called by the project manager. Written 
  notes of these meetings shall be produced and made available to all members.
Top 
4.3.3 Project Control Group 
For projects over $500,000, a Project Control Group will be established to monitor progress and to ensure adherence to the budget, scope of work, and programme.
Membership of the Project Control Group to be approved by the Director, Facilities Management comprises:
Project Coordinator
Director, Facilities Management or nominee
Executive dean of faculty / head of division or nominee
Other persons as required
Project Manager (chair / convenor).
Top 
4.3.4 User group 
A User Group is formed for projects depending on their size and complexity, and meets regularly throughout the design and construction phases, with more frequent meetings (usually weekly) during the design development phase.
Membership of the User Group will be determined by the Project Coordinator in conjunction with the dean of faculty / head of division. Stakeholders involved in operating the building also form part of the User Group.
The User Group provides detailed information on the needs of all prospective users and recommends design solutions as appropriate to the Project Control Group.
User Group sign off is required at various stages throughout the project.
Top 
Modification History 
Date
Sections
Source
Details
   24.11.10
   All 
   Planning and Resources Committee 
   Approval authority changed to Registrar
14.11.05
All
Planning and Resources Committee
Policy updated
20.12.01
All
Director, Facilities Management
Updated
Top 
    Chapter A | Chapter B | Chapter C | Chapter D | Chapter E | Chapter F | Chapter G | Chapter H | Chapter I | Appendices | Protocol for MOPP Policy | Recent Updates
    QUT Home | MOPP Home
    CRICOS No. 00213J
    Privacy | Copyright | Accessibility
    Last modified 30-Nov-2010
    Contact us | Feedback | Disclaimer
