QUT | MOPP | H/7.1 Vehicles
            QUT&nbsp;Home
          Contact&nbsp;us
          Search
      MOPP Home
      Protocol for MOPP Policy
      Recent Updates
      H/7.1 Vehicles
Chapters
A - Governance/Organisation
B - Human Resources
C - Learning/Teaching
D - Research/Development
E - Student Administration
F - Information Management
G - Financial Management
H - Physical Facilities
I - International/Community
MOPP Appendices
MOPP Protocol
MOPP Updates
[Print-friendly version]
Contact OfficerAssociate Director - Campus Services, Facilities Management 
Approval Date14/11/2005 
Approval AuthorityRegistrar 
Date of Next Review01/07/2009 
7.1.1 Vehicle categories 
7.1.2 Authority to drive University vehicles 
7.1.3 Use of University vehicles 
7.1.4 Acquisition and maintenance 
7.1.5 Vehicle servicing 
7.1.6 Installation of luggage grilles 
7.1.7 Vehicle replacement 
7.1.8 Breakdowns and accidents 
7.1.9 Hire of vehicles 
7.1.10 Taxi and Cabcharge vouchers 
7.1.11 Use of private vehicles on official business 
7.1.12 Vehicle booking for field trips 
7.1.13 Four-wheel drive vehicles 
7.1.14 Smoking in University vehicles 
Modification History 
7.1.1 Vehicle categories 
Vehicle organisation within the University is based on the following categories.
General vehicle pool:
Vehicles are available for general use under rules established for the operation of a centrally-managed vehicle pool with vehicles located on all campuses. The size of this pool will be subject to regular review as will the number of vehicles on each campus. Any review would include consideration of unfulfilled requests for a vehicle on each site, staff use of private vehicles for University business, and use of taxis and other hire vehicles.
Specific purpose vehicles
: Vehicles are allocated to a particular organisational unit for a specific purpose. Such allocations are to be approved by the Director, Corporate Finance. Vehicles in this category include centrally controlled courier vehicles, the night shuttle buses, the inter-library van, the computer maintenance van, buses for field trips and scheduled student movements, vehicles for research projects, Facilities Management vehicles etc.
Vehicles as part of a remuneration package
: Vehicles are allocated to particular members of staff as part of a remuneration package. The decision to allocate such a vehicle is made by Council or the Vice-Chancellor. The availability of such a vehicle for general use is at the discretion of the person to whom it is allocated. In addition to full private use as part of a remuneration package, the Vice-Chancellor may grant limited private use to designated staff. Limited private use ranges from garaging rights (ie the authority to drive University vehicles to and from work only) through to full private use but excluding annual holidays. Each case is subject to separate determination.
Senior staff may request approval from their head of school / department to receive part of their salary as a non-cash benefit in the form of a fully maintained motor vehicle for part private use. If the request is approved, the organisational unit makes a financial contribution to operating costs and the vehicle is made available for use by all staff in the organisational unit during business hours.
For further information on motor vehicles available through the Flexible Remuneration Scheme see 
B/7.3
or
  the 
Corporate Finance website.
Top 
7.1.2 Authority to drive University vehicles 
University vehicles may only be driven by holders of a current driver's licence relevant to the type of vehicle in question.
In addition, these vehicles may only be driven in connection with University business, except where otherwise specified for vehicles allocated as part of a remuneration package or over-award salary payment. Students may be granted permission to drive University vehicles in certain circumstances related to their studies, following approval from their head of school.
Prior to driving a four-wheel drive vehicle from the general vehicle pool, a written 'Authority to Drive' will be issued and endorsed by Campus Services, according to the driver's licence,and other requirements as detailed in 
H/7.1.13
. The 'Authority to Drive' must be withdrawn if the holder ceases to possess a current driver's licence or leaves the employment of the University.
No University vehicle may be driven while judgement may be impaired through the use of legal or illegal substances, including alcohol, and drivers must at all times observe the current regulations and laws of the State in which they are driving. The University accepts no liability for traffic or parking infringements related to the use of its vehicles, and payment of any associated fines must be met by the driver in charge of the vehicle at the time of the infringement.
Top 
7.1.3 Use of University vehicles 
Use of vehicles from the general pool is charged back to the faculty / division on an agreed hourly, daily and/or kilometric basis.
Where a University vehicle is required for a school / department field trip, charges will be levied for the use of University and hired vehicles and debited against the relevant responsibility centre (see 
G/8.1). Where a University vehicle is not available due to prior commitment, a hire vehicle may be utilised.
Any income accruing on a regular basis from usage of the central vehicle pool is allocated to an account designated for fleet vehicles within the Campus Services section.
Top 
7.1.4 Acquisition and maintenance 
The Facilities Management Department is responsible for overall fleet management of University general pool vehicles, and will issue procedures regarding proper care and use of vehicles.
The acquisition, replacement and operating costs of general pool vehicles are funded through the Facilities Management – Campus Services recurrent budget.
The acquisition of specific purpose vehicles, and vehicles allocated as part of a remuneration package or over-award salary payment, is funded from faculty / division budgets. Operating costs are charged back to the responsibility centre responsible for operating the vehicle.
Top 
7.1.5 Vehicle servicing 
Regular servicing of University vehicles will be arranged by
the responsibility centre operating the vehicle. Servicing will
be in accordance with the manufacturer's specifications for the
particular vehicle as set out in the Service Manual for that
vehicle.
Top 
7.1.6 Installation of luggage grilles 
To enhance greater flexibility in the usage of QUT vehicles and to prevent
  unrestrained luggage from being thrown from the storage area to the passenger
  area in some vehicles, luggage grilles or nets are installed in QUT general
  pool station wagons, and, where necessary, vans.
Top 
7.1.7 Vehicle replacement 
Decisions regarding the replacement of vehicles are made on the basis of cost effectiveness by the head of the relevant responsibility centre.
Top 
7.1.8 Breakdowns and accidents 
Facilities Management issues procedures to be adopted by drivers of University general pool vehicles in the case of breakdown, accident and other emergencies.
Breakdowns
If the breakdown relates to a general pool vehicle obtained through the Campus Services section it should be reported to the section as soon as possible.
Accidents
If a University vehicle is involved in an accident which may have caused injury to a person or damage to any vehicle or property, all relevant facts must be recorded and reported. For vehicles supplied from the general pool by the Campus Services section the instructions to be followed in the event of an accident are recorded on a card supplied to the driver when the vehicle is collected. Under no circumstances should the driver admit liability. Accidents are to be reported for insurance purposes as per the procedures outlined on the 
Corporate Finance website
A QUT 
Safety Problem Report and Investigation Form
also must be completed and copied to the staff member's faculty/division health and safety committee and submitted to the Human Resources Department (Health and Safety Advisory Services).
Top 
7.1.9 Hire of vehicles 
Vehicles may be hired only when a vehicle is not available from the general pool. The necessary authority to incur the proposed expenditure must be obtained from the relevant responsibility centre prior to confirmation of hire.
Hire vehicles will be maintained and serviced in accordance with the requirements of the hiring authority.
Top 
7.1.10 Taxi and Cabcharge vouchers 
The use of taxis on University business is detailed in 
G/5.5.2
Top 
7.1.11 Use of private vehicles on official business 
Use of privately owned vehicles for official University business should be minimised. The University accepts no responsibility for damage to a private vehicle. Privately owned vehicles may be used
on official business, such as nursing and teaching practice, where it may not be efficient to use a University vehicle or alternative
when an appropriate University vehicle is not available, public transport is not reasonably available, and it is uneconomical to hire a vehicle from a hiring authority.
Persons wishing to use a private vehicle on University business must have approval from their head of school / department / section. Rates of allowances for use of privately owned vehicles are determined from time to time - see 
Human Resources Department
Web Page for details.
It is in the best interests of employees and the University that employees who use a private vehicle on University business declare on the application form for compulsory third party insurance that the vehicle is used for 'private/business' purposes. This declaration involves no increase in insurance premium or motor vehicle registration fee.
Liability for property damage arising from use of a private vehicle will not be accepted by the University.
Top 
7.1.12 Vehicle booking for field trips 
The supply of vehicles for school / departmental field trips should be arranged
  through Campus Services section. All requests should be in writing and signed
  by the head of the school / department at least two weeks in advance. Where
  a University general pool vehicle cannot be supplied, the responsibility centre
  will be required to arrange a hire vehicle.
Top 
7.1.13 Four-wheel drive vehicles 
When four-wheel drive vehicles owned or rented by the University are used on field trips, the following conditions shall apply in addition to general conditions for the use of University vehicles.
The vehicles shall be driven 
only
by drivers authorised by Campus Services section and who have completed the four-wheel drive tactics course approved by Queensland Transport or who can prove an extensive history of use of such vehicles (eg army training).
Recovery equipment (snatch straps and winch controls) will only be issued to drivers who have completed a relevant approved Queensland Transport course or who can provide equivalent accreditation in the use of such equipment (eg army training).
Where the vehicle is carrying one or more passengers, the driver must be
    a QUT staff member or student authorised by the head of school.
Authorisation to drive four-wheel drive vehicles on field trips shall be endorsed on the driver's written 'Authority to Drive' by the relevant Campus Services section (see 
H/7.1.2).
Any booking / rental of a four-wheel drive vehicle for an overnight period shall be regarded as a field trip.
The cost of staff undertaking the four-wheel drive tactics course shall be borne by the staff member's faculty / school / department.
Top 
7.1.14 Smoking in University vehicles 
In accordance with the University's policy on smoking (see 
A/9.7), smoking is banned in all general pool vehicles and specific purpose vehicles.
Top 
Modification History 
Date
Sections
Source
Details
  24.11.10
   All
   Planning and Resources Committee
   Approval authority changed to Registrar
14.11.05
All
Planning and Resources Committee
Policy updated
20.12.01
All
Director - Facilities Management
Updated
Top 
    Chapter A | Chapter B | Chapter C | Chapter D | Chapter E | Chapter F | Chapter G | Chapter H | Chapter I | Appendices | Protocol for MOPP Policy | Recent Updates
    QUT Home | MOPP Home
    CRICOS No. 00213J
    Privacy | Copyright | Accessibility
    Last modified 30-Nov-2010
    Contact us | Feedback | Disclaimer
