QUT | MOPP | I/3.2 International recruitment representatives
            QUT&nbsp;Home
          Contact&nbsp;us
          Search
      MOPP Home
      Protocol for MOPP Policy
      Recent Updates
      I/3.2 International recruitment representatives
Chapters
A - Governance/Organisation
B - Human Resources
C - Learning/Teaching
D - Research/Development
E - Student Administration
F - Information Management
G - Financial Management
H - Physical Facilities
I - International/Community
MOPP Appendices
MOPP Protocol
MOPP Updates
[Print-friendly version]
Contact OfficerDirector, International Marketing and Recruitment 
Approval Date28/02/2006 
Approval AuthorityVice Chancellor 
Date of Next Review01/12/2011 
3.2.1 Policy 
3.2.2 Appointment of international recruitment representatives 
3.2.3 Roles and responsibilities 
Related Documents 
Modification History 
3.2.1 Policy 
QUT employs the services of a large number of organisations around the world to assist in its international
  marketing and recruitment activity. These organisations are referred to as international recruitment
  representatives. The process of appointment of, and ongoing communication with, international recruitment
representatives is managed by QUT International on behalf of the University.
International recruitment representatives act as QUT agents only for the purpose of international
  student recruitment on campus and may not represent themselves as having any other function within
  the University. They are bound, inasmuch as they act on the University's behalf, by the rules
  and provisions of the 
Education Services for Overseas Students Act 2000
(ESOS Act) and
  the associated National Code of Practice.
International recruitment representatives are remunerated by the University through a number of mechanisms
  which
may include payment for specified services such as dedicated promotions, advertising,
  and commissions.
Top 
3.2.2 Appointment of international recruitment representatives 
International recruitment representatives enter into formal contracts with the University.
All contracts must comply with current QUT policies, including the University's Information privacy policy
F/6.2
), and Australian government
  legislation.
Contracts are valid for an agreed maximum period and may be extended by the Executive Director, QUT
  International, following an annual or biannual  review process. Prior to the expiry of a contract, a review of
  the international recruitment representative and the representative's contract against specified
  performance indicators will be conducted.
Further information on the appointment of international recruitment representatives and the contract
  review process, including renewals and terminations, is provided in the 
Protocols
  for International Recruitment Representatives
Top 
3.2.3 Roles and responsibilities 
The Executive Director, QUT International, signs international recruitment contracts on behalf of
the University in respect of recruitment and placement of international students at QUT.
The Deputy Vice-Chancellor (International and Development) confirms the accuracy of representatives' invoices
  for placement of students at QUT and approves payments on the basis of these contracts.
Top 
Related Documents 
MOPP F/6.2 Information privacy
MOPP G/6.1 Policy on Management of
  contracts and MOUs
MOPP Appendix 3 Schedule of
  Authorities and Delegations
Top 
Modification History 
Date
Sections
Source
Details
   09.12.08
   All
  Deputy Vice-Chancellor (International and Development)
  Policy reviewed &ndash; minor editorial changes only
28.02.06
All
Vice-Chancellor
New policy (endorsed by International Policy and Strategy Committee 27.06.05 and
        Vice-Chancellor's Advisory Committee 23.11.05)
Top 
    Chapter A | Chapter B | Chapter C | Chapter D | Chapter E | Chapter F | Chapter G | Chapter H | Chapter I | Appendices | Protocol for MOPP Policy | Recent Updates
    QUT Home | MOPP Home
    CRICOS No. 00213J
    Privacy | Copyright | Accessibility
    Last modified 04-Oct-2010
    Contact us | Feedback | Disclaimer
