QUT | MOPP | I/4.1 Student Exchange Program
            QUT&nbsp;Home
          Contact&nbsp;us
          Search
      MOPP Home
      Protocol for MOPP Policy
      Recent Updates
      I/4.1 Student Exchange Program
Chapters
A - Governance/Organisation
B - Human Resources
C - Learning/Teaching
D - Research/Development
E - Student Administration
F - Information Management
G - Financial Management
H - Physical Facilities
I - International/Community
MOPP Appendices
MOPP Protocol
MOPP Updates
[Print-friendly version]
Contact OfficerDirector, Program Development (International and Development) 
Approval Date28/02/2006 
Approval AuthorityVice Chancellor 
Date of Next Review01/12/2011 
4.1.1 Student Exchange Program 
4.1.2 Student Exchange Agreements 
4.1.3 Student Exchange Program scholarships 
4.1.4 Inbound exchange students 
Related Documents 
Modification History 
4.1.1 Student Exchange Program 
QUT has long embraced a policy of "internationalisation" in its programs. As part
  of this policy, QUT students are encouraged to study at an overseas institution for one or two teaching
  periods as part of their course. Additionally, QUT welcomes inbound exchange students to spend
  one or two teaching periods in an Australian environment. To facilitate this, QUT has reciprocal exchange
agreements with universities around the world.
QUT offers three types of student exchange agreements with other institutions:
University-wide exchanges (available to all students);
faculty based exchanges (available only to students of certain faculties or schools); and
research exchanges (available only to postgraduate students).
The underlying premise of the exchange program is that exchange balances between inbound and outbound
  students should be neutral at the conclusion of the agreement.
The Deputy Vice-Chancellor (International and Development) has delegated authority from the Vice-Chancellor
  to sign Student Exchange Agreements. QUT International is responsible for promoting all exchange
  agreements.
Guidelines relating to eligibility and selection criteria are available on the Outbound Student Exchange website.
Top 
4.1.2 Student Exchange Agreements 
Prior to any overseas institution either accepting students from or sending students to QUT as detailed
  in this policy, a Student Exchange Agreement must be completed. Student Exchange Agreements are
  covered under the University's policy on International Cooperation Agreements (
I/3.1
) and therefore
are bound by all relevant sections of that policy.
The number of exchange places is limited by the Exchange Agreement. QUT students are chosen
  for outbound exchange according to the number of places available, their academic achievement, the
  merit of the student's international study program and the student's response to four selection
  criteria, namely academic, cultural and accommodation factors, and ambassadorial duties. A selection
  committee considers all applications and makes decisions on applications.
Top 
4.1.3 Student Exchange Program scholarships 
QUT offers financial assistance relating to exchange programs to students who are Australian citizens
or permanent residents and who have been accepted by the host institution as an exchange student.
Scholarships and bursaries are open to undergraduate and postgraduate students and are administered
  by QUT International with the exception of faculty-based scholarships, which are granted and administered
by the faculties under their guidelines.
Scholarships and bursaries are awarded on the basis of the student's application as outlined
in I/4.1.2 above.
Students may only receive one 
QUT
    scholarship or bursary
for the teaching period in which they are currently enrolled. Bursary
  recipients will be expected to contribute to the Exchange Promotional Sessions upon their return from
  exchange.
Top 
4.1.4 Inbound exchange students 
The acceptance of inbound exchange students is a contribution to QUT's commitment to internationalisation. QUT
  receives no funding support for inbound exchange students and relies on the goodwill of QUT as an institution
and its academic and administrative staff.
Inbound exchange students are subject to the selection criteria pertaining to their own institution
  and are recommended by that institution. Additionally, they are bound by the conditions and minimum
  entry requirements for QUT as outlined in the Exchange Agreement between QUT and the partner institution,
  including meeting minimum English language requirements.
Under delegated authority from the Registrar, QUT International makes offers of places to the selected
  students.
All inbound exchange students are bound by the conditions for admission of international students
  (see 
E/4.1.9
Top 
Related Documents 
Protocols for International Exchange Programs
MOPP E/4.1.9 Admission
      of International Students
MOPP Appendix 3 Schedule of
      Authorities and Delegations
MOPP I/3.1 International Cooperation Agreements
Related forms:
Scholarship
      Application Form
Student Exchange Program (E Form)
Top 
Modification History 
Date
Sections
Source
Details
   28.11.08
   All
  Deputy Vice-Chancellor (International and Development)
  Policy reviewed &ndash; minor editorial changes only
28.02.06
All
Vice Chancellor
New policy (endorsed by International Policy and Strategy Committee 27.06.05 and Vice-Chancellor's
        Advisory Committee 23.11.05); replaces former policies E/12 International student exchange programs,
        E/12.1 Exchange agreements, and E/12.2 Selection of exchange students
Top 
    Chapter A | Chapter B | Chapter C | Chapter D | Chapter E | Chapter F | Chapter G | Chapter H | Chapter I | Appendices | Protocol for MOPP Policy | Recent Updates
    QUT Home | MOPP Home
    CRICOS No. 00213J
    Privacy | Copyright | Accessibility
    Last modified 17-May-2010
    Contact us | Feedback | Disclaimer
