QUT | MOPP | I/5.1 Alumni
            QUT&nbsp;Home
          Contact&nbsp;us
          Search
      MOPP Home
      Protocol for MOPP Policy
      Recent Updates
      I/5.1 Alumni
Chapters
A - Governance/Organisation
B - Human Resources
C - Learning/Teaching
D - Research/Development
E - Student Administration
F - Information Management
G - Financial Management
H - Physical Facilities
I - International/Community
MOPP Appendices
MOPP Protocol
MOPP Updates
[Print-friendly version]
Contact OfficerDirector, University Advancement and Alumni 
Approval Date15/10/2008 
Approval AuthorityCouncil 
Date of Next Review01/12/2011 
5.1.1 QUT Alumni 
5.1.2 Alumni Board 
5.1.3 Alumni Groups 
Related Documents 
Modification History 
5.1.1 QUT Alumni 
QUT Alumni is a forum of QUT graduates, staff members, past and present  Council members and other qualified members. Established under the Queensland  University of Technology Act 1998 and Queensland University of  Technology (QUT Alumni) Statute 2008 , QUT Alumni is concerned  primarily with the mutual benefit to be gained through the interaction of QUT  with its graduates. QUT Alumni aims to represent the interests of QUT graduates  through its influence in University decision making processes, including those  concerned with learning, teaching and applied research. 
The objectives of QUT Alumni are
to provide benefits to individual alumni by fostering their continued involvement in the University
    and alumni community
to recognise the achievements of QUT graduates
to be committed to the professionalism and lifelong learning of QUT graduates
to contribute to curriculum development and implementation in order to maintain its high standard
    and relevance to industry, professions and the community
to assist QUT in establishing and maintaining contact with alumni for fundraising purposes
to forge relationships with graduates, business, professions, industries, government and other
    educational institutions in pursuance of Alumni's aim and in liaison with QUT Alumni and Development Office
to use representation on Council and faculty committees to ensure that graduate and professional
    viewpoints on academic and other matters are expressed
to promote the formation and activity of alumni groups representing common areas of interest between
    members
to link graduates, and through them industry, with the University's decision-making process
to provide a forum for debate on policy and relevant issues
to encourage social contact between graduates across the professions
to provide mentoring for current students.
Membership of QUT Alumni is determined by the Queensland University of  Technology (QUT Alumni) Statute 2008 . QUT Alumni is chaired by a President and  served by a Board which includes four elected members of Alumni. Members are  elected to these positions at the annual general meeting of QUT Alumni.
Alumni elects two members to Council, one of whom is the President of QUT  Alumni.
The Alumni and Development Office coordinates all Alumni outreach.
Meeting procedures as provided for in Council Procedure 1 -  Committees apply to QUT Alumni, except that:
QUT Alumni will meet at least once a year;
at any meeting       of QUT Alumni, 15 members will form a quorum.
Top 
5.1.2 Alumni Board 
Alumni Board operates as the executive and strategic management committee of QUT Alumni and facilitates
  ways that the alumni community can support the vision and goals of the University, in particular the
  fostering of an alumni culture within the University and the development of strategic links between
  commerce, industry, professions and the University through alumni for mutual benefit. The Board provides
  a leadership role in relation to community and alumni activities, and formulates and refines policy
in this respect.
See 
I/2.4
for full details of terms of reference and membership of Alumni Board.
Top 
5.1.3 Alumni Groups 
An alumni group is formed on the basis of common professional, industry, faculty, geographic or other
  expressed interest area. Alumni groups identify and involve graduates from their faculty/school in
  QUT activities in consultation with Alumni and Development Office staff. In addition to maintaining contact at
  the faculty level, alumni groups facilitate networking of graduates and information exchange at industry
  level. 
QUT Alumni and Development Office is responsible for coordinating involvement of graduates in the University in
liaison with Alumni Board. New alumni chapters are approved by Alumni Board.
The Alumni and Development Office assists with the establishment and operation of alumni groups by coordinating
  the planning, implementation and evaluation of programs to liaise with graduates. It also provides
  for the mailing of alumni and University materials and maintains financial records.
In consultation with the Alumni and Development Office, faculty or school staff liaise with their respective graduates
  and provide administrative support as needed for faculty-based activities.
Top 
Related Documents 
MOPP I/2.4 Alumni Board
MOPP I/5.2 QUT Outstanding Alumni Awards
Top 
Modification History 
Date
Sections
Source
Details
   15.10.08
   I/5.1.1 
   Council 
  Updated policy consistent with Queensland  University of Technology (QUT Alumni) Statute 2008 and Alumni Board terms of  reference and membership (endorsed by Alumni Board 28.08.08)
30.03.06
All
Secretariat
Re-numbered (from A/5.1 to I/5.1) and relocated to new Chapter I (International and Community
        Engagement); Alumni Board re-numbered to I/2.4; QUT Outstanding Alumni Awards re-numbered to
        I/5.2
27.10.04
All
Council
Revised policy, terms of reference of Alumni Board, and awards structure (endorsed by Alumni
        Board 23.06.04); abolished Council Procedure No 2 - Conduct of Alumni
10.05.01
I/5.1.1
Development Office
Updated to delete references to QUT Foundation (disestablished June 2000)
29.07.99
I/5.1
MOPP Officer
Revised in accordance with QUT Act 1998
02.12.98
I/5.1, I/5.1.1
Council
QUT Convocation reconstituted as QUT Alumni following proclamation of new QUT Act 1998
Top 
    Chapter A | Chapter B | Chapter C | Chapter D | Chapter E | Chapter F | Chapter G | Chapter H | Chapter I | Appendices | Protocol for MOPP Policy | Recent Updates
    QUT Home | MOPP Home
    CRICOS No. 00213J
    Privacy | Copyright | Accessibility
    Last modified 13-May-2010
    Contact us | Feedback | Disclaimer
