QUT | MOPP | I/7.3 QUT Art Collection
            QUT&nbsp;Home
          Contact&nbsp;us
          Search
      MOPP Home
      Protocol for MOPP Policy
      Recent Updates
      I/7.3 QUT Art Collection
Chapters
A - Governance/Organisation
B - Human Resources
C - Learning/Teaching
D - Research/Development
E - Student Administration
F - Information Management
G - Financial Management
H - Physical Facilities
I - International/Community
MOPP Appendices
MOPP Protocol
MOPP Updates
[Print-friendly version]
Contact OfficerDirector, QUT Precincts 
Approval Date03/02/2006 
Approval AuthorityVice-Chancellor 
Date of Next Review01/03/2009 
7.3.1 QUT Art Collection 
7.3.2 Acquisitions 
7.3.3 Display 
7.3.4 De-accessioning and disposal 
Modification History 
7.3.1 QUT Art Collection 
The QUT Art Collection is recognised as a University Collection (see 
I/7.1
). The University has acknowledged
  the need to provide adequate resources to ensure the Collection is managed and conserved in accordance
  with University policies and professional museum standards.
Managed by QUT Precincts, the QUT Art Collection contributes to the University's vision to
  bring to the community the benefits of teaching, research, technology and service. The QUT Art Museum
  develops and maintains the QUT Art Collection as a collection of national significance on behalf of
  the University. It provides a focus for QUT Precinct's commitment to creative experimentation,
  innovation and enterprise.
The principal aim of this policy is to develop a collection of the highest quality, recognising that
  it contributes to the national distributed collection held in museums Australia-wide and is intrinsically
  important to QUT and Queensland. QUT is a place where new technology meets creativity. The Collection
  will reflect this dynamic by prominently interfacing with multimedia technology through its acquisitions
  program.
The Collection will be developed pursuant to the following objectives:
to procure major works that assist in contextualising existing holdings
to build upon existing strengths by filling prominent gaps and extending current holdings
to promote creative experimentation and innovation in contemporary art through the acquisition
    and commissioning of new work, thus ensuring the relevance of the Collection for contemporary audiences
to acknowledge the importance of new technology in contemporary art especially in the production
    and acquisition of digital and multimedia work.
to advance QUT's commitment to sustainable reconciliation between Indigenous and non-Indigenous
    Australian people by the continued development of the Oodgeroo Collection of Aboriginal and Torres
    Strait Islander Art
to ensure that QUT graduates possess knowledge and appreciation of the arts germane to learning,
    personal development and a sense of community responsibility
to develop the collection of works by profile artist William Robinson as a unique cultural resource
    of national significance
to continue to represent the best of contemporary Australian printmaking and the best of Queensland
    art, including the acquisition of works by identified key QUT-trained artists.
Gifts and Bequests
In addition to the above, the University through the QUT Art Museum will receive gifts and bequests
  of works where such items enhance appreciation and understanding of the Collection. Gifts will be accepted
  only where the donor has clear legal title to the work and the gift is made on the basis of a total
transfer from the donor to the Museum.
The University will observe the regulations and procedures of the Australian Government's Cultural
  Gifts Program when considering the acquisition of works through this program.
Works offered on a long-term loan basis to QUT will be accepted only on the understanding that such
  works will eventually be donated or bequeathed to the University. Such an agreement will be documented
  in writing by the University before any work is accepted for loan.
The University will selectively collect support and other supplementary material by gift where these
  items assist in the understanding and enjoyment of works in the Collection. Such items will be formally
  acquired only where they have intrinsic aesthetic value to the Collection.
Top 
7.3.2 Acquisitions 
The Art Acquisitions Program is overseen by the Art Acquisitions Committee. The committee considers
  recommendations for acquisition of works and approves works for de-accessioning.
Membership of the Art Acquisitions Committee comprises:
Director, QUT Precincts (Chair)
Senior Curatorial Adviser
Director, University Advancement and Alumni
Up to five external members, appointed by the Deputy Vice-Chancellor (International and Development)
The Curator, Collections and Exhibitions, is Secretary.
The Art Acquisitions Committee meets as required, and reports to the Deputy Vice-Chancellor
  (International and Development)
Financial management of the Art Acquisitions Program is the responsibility of the Director, QUT Precincts.
  The Senior Curatorial Adviser is responsible for recommending works, consistent with the objectives
  of the QUT Art Collection, to the Art Acquisitions Committee for approval.
Works will be acquired according to the QUT Art Collection acquisition procedures available
  on the 
QUT Precincts
website.
Top 
7.3.3 Display 
A minimum of 10% of works in the QUT Art Collection will be exhibited across the QUT campuses for
  the benefit of the QUT community and visitors to the University. In addition, the Collection is exhibited
  in QUT Precincts facilities, particularly the QUT Art Museum, the foyer of Gardens Theatre, Old Government
  House and from time to time regionally and nationally in exhibitions touring to other venues.
Premium and Reserve Collections
The QUT Art Collection is separated into Premium and Reserve Collections for display purposes. The
  term "Premium' refers to those works regarded as being of the highest quality and therefore
  more valuable. Premium works are housed primarily in the QUT Art Museum. Such works may also
  be available for display in the offices of the University's  senior management, as well
  as the Council Room, Owen J Wordsworth Room and such other suitable spaces as are designated for that
  purpose from time to time, on the authority of the Director, QUT Precincts.
The term  "Reserve' refers to those works remaining in the QUT Art Collection, not included
  in the Premium Collection. Works from the Reserve Collection may be displayed across QUT's campuses.
  Works are assigned in accordance with the University's organisational structure, comprising the
  Chancellery, divisions and faculties. Requests for loans must be forwarded to the Director, QUT Precincts,
  through the appropriate senior officer of the organisational unit.
Works are displayed only in areas that are publicly accessible and meet appropriate aesthetic,
  environmental and security standards.
QUT Precincts coordinates the administration and display of works in accordance with the QUT Art
Collection display procedures available on the 
QUT Precincts
website.
Top 
7.3.4 De-accessioning and disposal 
De-accessioning is the process by which works are formally approved for removal from the QUT Art Collection
  database. De-accessioning is an integral part of collection development and improvement. The University
  periodically de-accessions works, including gifts and bequests, in order to refine and enhance the
  collection.
The Art Acquisitions Committee considers works for de-accessioning based on one or more of the following
  criteria:
duplication
inferior quality
insufficient documentation to support authenticity
irrelevance to the Collection
irreparable damage
repatriation of cultural material to an Indigenous community with proof of a valid claim
theft or loss.
Only works to which the University has clear legal title are considered for de-accessioning.
Once a work has been approved for de-accessioning by the Art Acquisitions Committee, it is disposed
  of according to the QUT Art Collection procedures for de-accessioning and disposal available
  on the 
QUT Precincts
website.
Top 
Modification History 
Date
Sections
Source
Details
03.02.06
All
Vice-Chancellor
Revised policy (replaces former policies H/8.3, H/8.4 and H/8.5)
02.07.03
All
Vice-Chancellor
Revised policy (endorsed by Cultural Precinct Advisory Board 23.05.03)
10.12.02
All
Vice-Chancellor
New policy (endorsed by Cultural Precinct Advisory Board 09.08.02)
Top 
    Chapter A | Chapter B | Chapter C | Chapter D | Chapter E | Chapter F | Chapter G | Chapter H | Chapter I | Appendices | Protocol for MOPP Policy | Recent Updates
    QUT Home | MOPP Home
    CRICOS No. 00213J
    Privacy | Copyright | Accessibility
    Last modified 13-May-2010
    Contact us | Feedback | Disclaimer
