QUT | MOPP | I/7.1 Museums and Collections
            QUT&nbsp;Home
          Contact&nbsp;us
          Search
      MOPP Home
      Protocol for MOPP Policy
      Recent Updates
      I/7.1 Museums and Collections
Chapters
A - Governance/Organisation
B - Human Resources
C - Learning/Teaching
D - Research/Development
E - Student Administration
F - Information Management
G - Financial Management
H - Physical Facilities
I - International/Community
MOPP Appendices
MOPP Protocol
MOPP Updates
[Print-friendly version]
Contact OfficerDirector, QUT Precincts 
Approval Date16/09/2009 
Approval AuthorityCouncil 
Date of Next Review01/09/2012 
7.1.1 Definition 
7.1.2 University museums and collections 
7.1.3 Acquisitions 
7.1.4 De-accessions 
7.1.5 Loans 
Modification History 
7.1.1 Definition 
The University defines museums and collections as units which acquire, conserve, research, communicate
  and exhibit for the purposes of study, education and enjoyment, material evidence of people and their
  environment. A museum which displays some or all of a collection in a specific-purpose space and is
  open to the public at regular times is such a unit. A collection has limited, scattered or no displays. 
Top7.1.2 University museums and collections 
Council may recognise University museums and collections to which the University has a long-term commitment
  and which enhance QUT's vision and strategic plan. Executive deans of faculty and heads of division
  may establish other museums and collections without University status which are not eligible for central
  funds. Application may be made to Council for formal recognition of such museums and collections by
  the University. 
University museums and collections will operate in accordance with a written mission statement, objectives,
  policy and a strategic plan, which will include the purpose of the collection and the proposed manner
  of acquisition and disposal of objects. 
The University and its employees responsible for University museums and collections will be guided
  by relevant codes of ethics for the museum profession. 
Top7.1.3 Acquisitions 
University museums and collections will acquire and maintain only those objects of collectable or
  intrinsic significance which enhance QUT's vision and which are consistent with the written mission
  statement and policies of the particular museum or collection. 
Clear legal title is required for all objects permanently acquired. If clear title cannot be provided,
  a proposed acquisition should not proceed. Title will pass to the University and not to any individual
  or organisational unit. University museums and collections will formally accession, catalogue and maintain
  objects acquired. 
Top7.1.4 De-accessions 
The de-accessioning and disposal of an object in a University museum or collection will occur only
  in accordance with the procedures specified in the policies of each museum or collection. The de-accessioning
  and disposal of an entire collection will not proceed without Council approval. 
Top7.1.5 Loans 
All loans to a University museum or collection will be made to the University and not to any individual
  or organisational unit. The conditions of any loan will be specified in writing, and will include the
  proposed term and responsibility for transportation, conservation, security and insurance. 
TopModification History 
Date 
Sections 
Source 
Details 
   16.09.09 
   All
   Deputy Vice-Chancellor, International and Development
   Periodic review - no change required
03.02.06
I/7.1.2
Vice-Chancellor
Updated consistent with current management structures
06.08.97
All
Vice-Chancellor
Revised policy (endorsed by Art Collection Committee)
Top 
    Chapter A | Chapter B | Chapter C | Chapter D | Chapter E | Chapter F | Chapter G | Chapter H | Chapter I | Appendices | Protocol for MOPP Policy | Recent Updates
    QUT Home | MOPP Home
    CRICOS No. 00213J
    Privacy | Copyright | Accessibility
    Last modified 13-May-2010
    Contact us | Feedback | Disclaimer
