QUT | MOPP | I/7.2 Precincts, exhibitions and public art space
            QUT&nbsp;Home
          Contact&nbsp;us
          Search
      MOPP Home
      Protocol for MOPP Policy
      Recent Updates
      I/7.2 Precincts, exhibitions and public art space
Chapters
A - Governance/Organisation
B - Human Resources
C - Learning/Teaching
D - Research/Development
E - Student Administration
F - Information Management
G - Financial Management
H - Physical Facilities
I - International/Community
MOPP Appendices
MOPP Protocol
MOPP Updates
[Print-friendly version]
Contact OfficerDirector, QUT Precincts 
Approval Date16/09/2009 
Approval AuthorityVice-Chancellor 
Date of Next Review01/09/2012 
7.2.1 QUT Precincts 
7.2.2 Exhibition program guidelines 
7.2.3 Commissioning of public artworks for the Kelvin Grove Road screen 
Modification History 
7.2.1 QUT Precincts 
QUT Precincts provides coordinated management and development of QUT's public precincts (Creative
  Industries Precinct and Gardens Cultural Precinct) to maximise outreach activity for the University
community, partners, industry and the broader community.
This is achieved through:
selection and programming of exhibition programs in line with policy guidelines (see I/7.2.2 below)
management of the QUT Art Collection (see 
I/7.3
selection and programming for the Gardens Theatre season
identification of opportunities for collaboration / partnership with Australian and international
    universities, companies and museums and other agencies
production of performance and exhibition work of graduating students of the Creative Industries
    Faculty 
management of the hire of Precinct spaces
coordination of events hosted by internal and external clients
provision of technical, marketing and production support.
Top7.2.2 Exhibition program guidelines 
The exhibition program is developed within the strategic plan of QUT Precincts as an outreach activity
  of the Division of International and Development. The exhibition program will encompass museum spaces
  (including the QUT Art Museum, Gardens Cultural Precinct and the Block, Creative Industries Precinct)
and public art spaces at the Creative Industries Precinct.
The exhibition program comprises:
Exhibitions from the QUT Art Collection
Touring exhibitions that are selected for their relevance to the museum spaces in terms of:
quality and appeal of the exhibition
linkage to the QUT Art Collection or to the University's art and design programs
connection to other cultural priorities of the University (eg international exchange)
Suitable work of graduating students, postgraduate students, staff and alumni
Other suitable work drawn from the University or with partners in the areas of visual arts and
    design.
The exhibition program is determined by the Director, QUT Precincts in line with regular strategic
and operational planning processes within the Division of International and Development.
Top7.2.3 Commissioning of public artworks for the Kelvin Grove Road screen 
Artworks for the Kelvin Grove Road screen will be commissioned according to the 
curatorial
    guidelines
for
  this screen. The University reserves the right to request changes to a work in the context of these
  guidelines. The University also retains the right to credit sponsors of the artwork appropriately on
  the screen. 
Works are preferred that:
are specifically designed or reinterpreted for the site
are suitable by way of form and quality for public viewing and accessibility
contribute variety to the exhibition program
relate in some way to issues, activities or ideas that are pertinent to stakeholders within the
    Creative Industries Precinct.
Advertising, informational material and moving images are not permitted.
Selection of work
Art works for the Kelvin Grove Road screen are approved by the Vice-Chancellor upon the advice of
  the Director, QUT Precincts through the Deputy Vice-Chancellor (International and Development). Decisions
  of the Vice-Chancellor are final.
Works are recommended as a result of one of the following processes:
Public call for expressions of interest from practising artists to exhibit on the screen. Submissions
    are considered and recommendations made by a panel including qualified external members, chaired
    by the Director, QUT Precincts.
Invitation to exhibit to a professional artist who may be a qualified member of QUT staff or a
    practitioner external to the University.
Invitation to exhibit to a postgraduate student with an appropriate standing as an exhibiting artist.
In all cases there will be consultation with key Precinct stakeholders on the images under consideration. 
TopModification History 
Date 
Sections 
Source 
Details 
   16.09.09 
   All
   Deputy Vice-Chancellor, International and Development
   Periodic review - no change required
03.02.06
All
Vice-Chancellor
New policy (replaces former policies H/8.2 and H/8.6)
Top 
    Chapter A | Chapter B | Chapter C | Chapter D | Chapter E | Chapter F | Chapter G | Chapter H | Chapter I | Appendices | Protocol for MOPP Policy | Recent Updates
    QUT Home | MOPP Home
    CRICOS No. 00213J
    Privacy | Copyright | Accessibility
    Last modified 13-May-2010
    Contact us | Feedback | Disclaimer
